E-Cookbooks Salad Recipe Sampl 

VJJE Publishing Co. 



E-Cookbooks Salad Recipe Sampler 

Table of Contents 



Introduction, 1 

Personalized Cooking Aprons 2 

Antipasto Pasta Salad. 3 

Beet Salad 4 

Couscous Salad. 5 

Beef Faiita Salad. 6 

Greek Salad 7 

Chicken Pasta Salad 8 

Lenta Salad. 9 

Ham Salad with Hot Peanut Dressing. 10 

Deli Potato Salad. 11 

Mandarin Orange Salad. 12 

Turkey Macaroni Salad. 13 

Taco Salad. 14 

Hungarian Cucumber Salad 15 

Golden Corral's Seafood Salad. 16 

Strawberry Spinach Salad 17 

Mediterranean Salad 18 

Spicy Pecan Salad 19 

Rice Salad 20 

Zucchini Slaw 21 

Poached Chicken and Walnut Salad. 22 

Sugar Snap Salad 23 

Fruit Salad with Champagne Sauce. 24 



E-Cookbooks Salad Recipe Sampler 

Table of Contents 

Mushroom Antipasto Pasta Salad 25 

Grilled Caribbean Chicken Salad 26 

Spicv Fruit Salad. 27 



ii 



The E-Cookbooks Library 

"Home To Over 100.000 World Class Recipes!" 




Salad Recipe Sampler 

Get 2,500 More Salad Recipes: 
Visit The E-Cookbooks Library 

We encourage you to pass along this e-cookbook 
to a friend ... Show them you have good taste! 

Free Recipes In Your Email! 

Subscribe to the VJJE Recipe Weekly 
and enjoy new recipes each week. 
It's fun and it's FREE! 

Click Here To Subscribe 



Introduction 



1 



Personalized 
Cooking 
Aprons 

"Make a mess - 
protect the dress!" 

We'll inscribe two lines of 
YOUR text in a variety of 
colors YOU choose. You 

can be like a 
professional chef with a 
name and title! Create a 

personalized cooking 
apron for yourself or as a 
great gift idea for anyone 
that cooks. 




* Quality Material * 

* Durable Construction * 
* Cut Wide and Long * 

* Extra-Long Ties * 

* One Size Fits All * 



Click HERE For 
Cooking Aprons 



Personalized Cooking Aprons 



2 



Antipasto Pasta Salad 



1 pound shell, bowtie or elbow macaroni pasta 

1/4 pound Genoa salami, chopped 

1/4 pound pepperoni, chopped 

1/2 pound Asiago or Italian sharp cheese, diced 

1 (6 ounce) can black olives, drained and chopped 

1 red bell pepper, diced 

1 green bell pepper, diced 

3 ripe tomatoes, chopped 

1 (.6 ounce) Italian dressing mix (Good Seasons) 
3/4 cup extra virgin olive oil 

1/4 cup balsamic vinegar 

2 tablespoons dried oregano 
1 tablespoon dried parsley 

1 tablespoon grated Parmesan cheese 
salt 

ground black pepper 

Cook the pasta in a large pot of salted boiling water 
until al dente. Drain and cool under cold water. 
In a large bowl, combine the pasta, salami, pepperoni, 
cheese, black olives, red bell pepper, green bell pepper 
and tomatoes. Sprinkle on the envelope of powdered dressing, 
mix thoroughly and refrigerate salad. 
To prepare the dressing, whisk together the olive oil, 
balsamic vinegar, oregano, parsley, parmesan cheese, salt 
and pepper. Just before serving, pour dressing over the 
salad and mix well. 

FREE Cookbooks!! Stop Searching, Start Cooking! 
http://www.e-cookbooks.net 



Antipasto Pasta Salad 



3 



Beet Salad 



Roasted Beets: 

4 bunches of beets (trim root ends and remove tops) 
2 Tablespoons of olive oil 

Coat beets with oil. Roast in 450 degrees oven on a sheet pan for 
approximately 45 minutes or until tender. Cool, peel, and dice. 

Dijon Honey Vinaigrette: 
1 Tablespoon of lemon juice 
1 ounce white wine vinegar 
1 Tablespoon honey 
1 ounce dijon mustard 
1 teaspoon dried thyme 
4 ounces vegetable oil 
salt & white pepper to taste 

Combine first five ingredients in a blender. While blender is 
running slowly add oil. Season to taste with salt and white pepper. 

Salad Ingredients: 

1/4 pound French Feta cheese (crumbled) 

1 pound of spring mix lettuce 

2 heads Belgium endive 

Place three endive leaves symmetrically on each plate. Toss 
spring mix with vinaigrette. Divide between plates, top with diced 
beets and feta cheese. 

FREE Cookbooks!! Stop Searching, Start Cooking! 
http://www.e-cookbooks.net 



Beet Salad 



4 



Couscous Salad 



1 cup cooked couscous 

1 tablespoon butter 

1 red onion, chopped 

1 red bell pepper, chopped 

1/3 cup chopped fresh parsley 

1/3 cup raisins 

1/3 cup toasted sliced almonds 

1/2 cup canned chick peas, rinsed and drained 

1/2 cup creamy salad dressing 

1/4 cup plain yogurt 

1 teaspoon ground cumin 

salt and pepper to taste 

Place 1 teaspoon butter in a saucepan and melt over medium-low 
heat. Add 1/2 cup couscous and stir until coated in butter. Add 
1 cup water. Bring to boil, reduce heat to a simmer. Cover and 
cook until all water is absorbed. Season with salt and pepper, 
set aside to cool. 

In a salad bowl, combine the couscous, red onion, bell pepper, 
parsley, raisins, almonds and chick peas. Stir and mix well. 
Whisk together the salad dressing, yogurt, cumin, salt and pepper. 
Pour the dressing over salad; stir until well blended, 
chill and serve. 

FREE Cookbooks!! Stop Searching, Start Cooking! 
http://www.e-cookbooks.net 



Couscous Salad 



5 



Beef Fajita Salad 



1 (8 ounce) bottle Italian dressing 

1 teaspoon cumin 

dash hot pepper sauce 

1/2 pound beef for fajitas, strips or chuncks 

1/2 cup corn kernels 

1/2 cup cooked kidney beans 

1/2 cup red onion, sliced 

1/2 cup Cheddar cheese, shredded 

1 tomato, chopped 

6 to 8 cups salad greens 

2 cups crushed tortilla chips 

Combine the cumin, hot pepper sauce and Italian dressing in a 
small bowl and mix well. Reserve 1/2 cup of the dressing. In a 
separate bowl, add enough dressing to coat the beef and let 
marinate for 1 hour. 

In a hot skillet, fry the beef and cook until done. Allow the 
beef to cool. In a medium bowl combine the beef with the corn, 
beans, onions and 1/2 cup of the dressing. Refrigerate for several 
hours before serving. 

To serve, toss the beef and vegetable mixture with the salad 
greens, tomatoes and shredded cheese. Add extra dressing if 
necessary and top with the crushed tortilla chips. 

FREE Cookbooks!! Stop Searching, Start Cooking! 
http://www.e-cookbooks.net 



Beef Fajita Salad 



6 



Greek Salad 



1 head iceburg lettuce 
1 head romaine lettuce 

1 lb. plum (roma) tomatoes 

6 oz. greek or black olives, sliced 
4 oz. sliced radishes 
4 oz. feta cheese 

2 oz. anchovies (optional) 

Dressing: 

3 oz. olive oil 

3 oz. fresh (preferred) lemon juice 
1 teaspoon dried oregano 

1 teaspoon black pepper 
1 teaspoon salt 

4 cloves garlic, minced 

Wash and cut lettuce into 1 1/2" pieces. 
Slice tomatoes in quarters. Combine lettuce, tomatoes, olives, 
and radishes in large bowl. Mix dressing ingredients together 
and then toss with vegetables. Pour out into a shallow serving 
bowl. Crumble feta cheese over all, and arrange anchovy fillets 
on top (if desired). 

FREE Cookbooks!! Stop Searching, Start Cooking! 
http://www.e-cookbooks.net 



Greek Salad 



7 



Chicken Pasta Salad 



2 boneless chicken breasts 
3/4 cup steak sauce 

1 (12 ounce) package fussili or bowtie pasta 

2 chicken bouillon cubes 

1 medium Vidalia onion, diced 

2 avocados, peeled and diced 
1 cup halved cherry tomatoes 

1 cup blue cheese or ranch salad dressing 

Marinate chicken breasts in steak sauce for 15 to 60 minutes. 
Grill until done and chop into bite-size pieces. 
In a large pot of boiling water, add the bouillon cubes and 
cook pasta until al dente. Drain and rinse under cold water. 
In a large bowl, combine chicken, pasta, onion, avocados and 
tomatoes. Add salad dressing, mix and refrigerate until chilled. 
Stir in additional salad dressing when ready to serve, if desired. 



FREE Cookbooks!! Stop Searching, Start Cooking! 
http://www.e-cookbooks.net 



Chicken Pasta Salad 



8 



Lentil Salad 



1 cup dried lentils 
1 cup diced carrots 

1 cup diced red onions 

2 cloves garlic, minced 

1 bay leaf 

1/2 teaspoon dried thyme 

2 tablespoons lemon juice 
1/2 cup diced celery 

1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley 
1 teaspoon salt 

1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 
1/4 cup olive oil 

In a saucepan combine lentils, carrots, onion, garlic, bay leaf, 
and thyme. Add enough water to cover by 1 inch. Bring to boil, reduce 
heat and simmer uncovered for 15 to 20 minutes or until lentils are 
tender but not mushy. 

Drain lentils and vegetables and remove bay leaf. Add olive oil, 
lemon juice, celery, parsley, salt and pepper. Toss to mix and serve 
at room temperature. 

FREE Cookbooks!! Stop Searching, Start Cooking! 
http://www.e-cookbooks.net 



Lentil Salad 



9 



Ham Salad with Hot Peanut Dressing 



3/4 pound boneless ham 

2 tablespoons vegetable oil 
1/4 cup peanut butter 

3 tablespoons fresh lime juice 

1 tablespoon reduced-sodium soy sauce 
1 teaspoon ground ginger 
1 clove garlic, minced 
1 tablespoon sugar 

1 medium cucumber, seeded and thinly sliced 

1/2 red onion, thinly sliced 

6 cups romaine or curly endive, torn 

1 head radiccio or Boston lettuce 

Thinly slice ham and heat briefly in microwave or in skillet 
over medium heat. Set aside and keep warm. For dressing, combine 
vegetable oil, peanut butter, lime juice, soy sauce, ginger, garlic 
and sugar in a blender or food processor; blend well. 
Heat dressing in microwave in glass measuring cup or on stovetop 
in a small saucepan. Toss cucumber, red onion, romaine and endive 
together. Arrange salads on individual salad plates as follows: 
Line plates with radiccio or Boston lettuce, top with tossed 
vegetables, arrange ham slices atop and spoon over hot dressing. 

FREE Cookbooks!! Stop Searching, Start Cooking! 
http://www.e-cookbooks.net 



Ham Salad with Hot Peanut Dressing 



10 



Deli Potato Salad 



6 to 10 potatoes, boiled, cooled and cut in chunks 
3 hard boiled eggs, chopped 

1/2 lb. salami, ham, or other favorite deli meat, cut in chunks 
3 dill pickles, chopped 

1 onion, chopped 

2 apples, cored and chopped 

3 tbsp. mayonnaise 

3 tbsp. red wine vinegar 

salt and fresh ground pepper to taste 

paprika 

Mix potatoes, pickles, eggs, apple and onion in a large bowl. Fry 
salami lightly and drain off excess fat, cool. Stir salami, 
mayonnaise and seasoning into potato mixture. Chill for 2 hours 
before serving. Garnish with slivered red and green sweet peppers. 

FREE Cookbooks!! Stop Searching, Start Cooking! 
http://www.e-cookbooks.net 



Deli Potato Salad 



11 



Mandarin Orange Salad 



1/2 cup sour cream 
1/4 cup mayonnaise 
1/4 cup milk 

1/2 to 1 teaspoon minced garlic 
1/2 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 
pinch sugar 

pinch ground white pepper 
cayenne pepper to taste 

3 large heads butter lettuce - torn, washed and dried 

1 small Vidalia sweet onion, peeled and sliced into thin rings 

1 (11 ounce) can mandarin oranges, drained 

6 ounces fresh mushrooms, thinly sliced 

salt and pepper to taste 

Prepare the dressing by whisking together the sour cream, 
mayonnaise, milk, garlic, Worcestershire sauce, sugar, 
white pepper and cayenne pepper. Store in an air-tight container 
and refrigerate. 

Prepare the salad in a large bowl by combining the lettuce, onion, 
oranges and mushrooms. Add enough dressing to coat and toss. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper and add croutons if desired. 

FREE Cookbooks!! Stop Searching, Start Cooking! 
http://www.e-cookbooks.net 



Mandarin Orange Salad 



12 



Turkey Macaroni Salad 



8 ounces fusilli pasta, uncooked 
1 cup mayonnaise 
1 cup yogurt 

1/4 cup chopped green onions 
1 teaspoon salt 

1/8 teaspoon ground white pepper 
3 cups (1 pound) cubed, cooked turkey 
1 cup chopped celery 

Cook pasta according to package directions. Drain, rinse with 
cold water, and drain again. 

In a large bowl, combine mayonnaise, yogurt, onions, salt, and 
white pepper. Gently stir in turkey, pasta, and celery. 
Cover, and chill until serving time. 

FREE Cookbooks!! Stop Searching, Start Cooking! 
http://www.e-cookbooks.net 



Turkey Macaroni Salad 



13 



Taco Salad 



1 pound lean ground beef 

1 tablespoon chili powder 

1 head iceberg lettuce, chopped or shredded 

1 bunch romaine lettuce, chopped 

3 large tomatoes, diced 

1 green bell pepper, diced 

1 red bell pepper, diced 

1 bunch green onions, chopped 

1 (4 oz.) can jalapeno peppers or 3 to 4 fresh ones, 

finely chopped 
1 (15 oz.) can red kidney beans, drained 
1 (15 oz.) can garbanzo beans, drained 

1 (12 oz.) bag shredded Cheddar cheese, divided 

2 (14.5 oz.) bags corn tortilla chips, crushed 

2 cups Miracle Whip 
1 cup ketchup 

1 (1 .25 ounce) package taco seasoning mix 

Brown the beef, drain, season with chili powder and set aside to 
cool. 

Prepare the dressing by whisking the Miracle Whip, ketchup and 
taco seasoning mix together in a small bowl. 
In a large bowl, combine iceberg lettuce, romaine lettuce, 
tomatoes, green pepper, red pepper, green onions, jalapeno peppers, 
kidney beans, garbanzo beans, half of the cheese, half of the 
crushed chips, dressing and cooled ground beef. Mix well, cover 
and refrigerate. 

Just before serving, top the salad with the other half of the 
cheese and crushed chips. Serve with whole chips on the side. 

FREE Cookbooks!! Stop Searching, Start Cooking! 
http://www.e-cookbooks.net 



Taco Salad 



14 



Hungarian Cucumber Salad 



2-3 cucumbers, sliced 

2 teaspoons salt 

3 tablespoons cider vinegar 
1 1/2 teaspoons sugar 

1/4 teaspoon paprika 

1/4 teaspoon white pepper 

1/2 clove garlic, minced 

4 fresh green onions, diced 
1 cup thick sour cream 

1/4 teaspoon paprika 

Slice cucumbers thinly into bowl; sprinkle with salt, mix. Set 
aside for 1 hour. Mix vinegar, water, sugar, paprika, white pepper 
and garlic, and set aside. Squeeze liquid from cucumber slices a 
few at a time, and place into bowl. Discard liquid. Add vinegar 
mixture, green onions, and sour cream. Mix and sprinkle additional 
paprika over top. Chill for 1 -2 hours. 



FREE Cookbooks!! Stop Searching, Start Cooking! 
http://www.e-cookbooks.net 



Hungarian Cucumber Salad 



15 



Golden Corral's Seafood Salad 



1 lb. imitation crab meat, shredded 
1 cup diced celery 
1/2 cup mayonnaise 

1/4 cup sliced green onions (with the green too) 
1 tablespoon lemon juice 
3 hard boiled eggs, chopped. 

Mix all ingredients. Refrigerate for about an hour to allow 
flavors to blend. Serve either as a salad, on lettuce, or on 
split croissants. 

FREE Cookbooks!! Stop Searching, Start Cooking! 
http://www.e-cookbooks.net 



Golden Corral's Seafood Salad 



16 



Strawberry Spinach Salad 



2 tablespoons sesame seeds 

1 tablespoon poppy seeds 

1/2 cup sugar 

1/2 cup olive oil 

1/4 cup white vinegar 

1/4 teaspoon paprika 

1/4 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 

1 tablespoon dried minced onion 

1 (10 ounce) bag fresh spinach - chopped, washed and dried 

1 quart strawberries, sliced 

1/4 cup toasted slivered almonds 

Whisk together the sesame seeds, poppy seeds, sugar, olive oil, 
vinegar, paprika, Worcestershire sauce, and onion. 
Refrigerate until chilled. 

In a large bowl, combine the spinach, strawberries and almonds. 
Pour dressing over salad; toss and refrigerate 10-15 minutes 
before serving. 

FREE Cookbooks!! Stop Searching, Start Cooking! 
http://www.e-cookbooks.net 



Strawberry Spinach Salad 



17 



Mediterranean Salad 



1 medium head romaine lettuce, torn 

3 small tomatoes, diced 

1 medium cucumber, sliced 

1 small green bell pepper, sliced 

1 small onion, cut into rings 

6 radishes, thinly sliced 

1/2 cup flat leaf parsley, chopped 

1/3 cup olive oil 

3 tablespoons lemon juice 

1 garlic clove, minced 

Salt & pepper 

1 teaspoon fresh mint, minced 
Pita bread halves 

Combine lettuce, tomatoes, cucumber, pepper, onion, radishes 
& parsley in a salad bowl. Whisk together olive oil, lemon juice, 
garlic, salt, pepper & mint. Pour over salad & toss to coat. 
Serve immediately with warm pita halves. 

FREE Cookbooks!! Stop Searching, Start Cooking! 
http://www.e-cookbooks.net 



Mediterranean Salad 



18 



Spicy Pecan Salad 



1 heart of romaine lettuce 
red onion 

1/8 cup crumbles blue cheese 

2 oz. spicy pepper pecans (chopped) 

4 teaspoons raspberry vinaigrette (per serving) 

Toss romaine lettuce with raspberry vinaigrette and divide evenly on 
salad plates. Slice red onion paper-thin and layer to taste on top of 
the greens. Sprinkle with blue cheese crumbles and spicy pepper 
pecans to taste. 

Spicy Pepper Pecans: 

2 oz. or 1/2 cup of chopped pecans 

3 teaspoons dark brown sugar 
1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper 

Rinse pecan pieces to dampen. Combine brown sugar and cayenne 
pepper in a small bowl. Mix in damp pecan pieces and toss until 
thoroughly coated. Spread evenly on cookie sheet then place in 
preheated 400F oven and cook 5 to 10 minutes or until brown sugar 
is thoroughly melted on pecans. Remove and let cool. 

FREE Cookbooks!! Stop Searching, Start Cooking! 
http://www.e-cookbooks.net 



Spicy Pecan Salad 



19 



Rice Salad 



3 cups cold cooked rice 
1/2 cup cooked peas 
1/2 cup cooked corn 
1/2 cup raisins 

1/2 cup red and green pepper, chopped 
1/3 cup olive oil 

6 slices bacon, cooked crisp and crumbled 
salt and fresh ground pepper to taste 

Combine all ingredients in a bowl. Toss with olive oil and chill 
overnight in refrigerator before serving. Garnish with orange 
sections. 

FREE Cookbooks!! Stop Searching, Start Cooking! 
http://www.e-cookbooks.net 



Rice Salad 



20 



Zucchini Slaw 



6 medium zucchini, grated (1 1/2 lbs) 

2 teaspoons salt 

1 large carrot, grated 

1 sweet red pepper, julienned 

1 red onion, thinly sliced 

1 stalk celery, julienned 

2 tablespoons each chopped fresh dill and parsley 

Dressing: 
3/4 cup mayonnaise 
2 tablespoons Dijon mustard 
2 tablespoons red wine vinegar 
1 tablespoon olive oil 
1 tablespoon honey 
1 teaspoon horseradish 
1/4 teaspoon pepper 

Combine zucchini and salt; toss well. Place in colander; 
let stand for 30 minutes. Rinse under cold water; drain and 
squeeze out excess moisture. Place zucchini in bowl and add 
carrot, red pepper, onion and celery; toss well. Sprinkle 
with parsley and dill. Combine mayonnaise, mustard, vinegar, 
oil, honey, horseradish and pepper; stir into zucchini mixture. 
Taste and adjust seasoning if necessary. 

FREE Cookbooks!! Stop Searching, Start Cooking! 
http://www.e-cookbooks.net 



Zucchini Slaw 



21 



Poached Chicken and Walnut Salad 



2 whole chicken breasts (with skin on and bone in) 
1 celery stalk 

1 onion, sliced 
6 peppercorns 
chicken broth 

3 tbsp. extra virgin olive oil 
3 tbsp. balsamic vinegar 
1/4 cup walnuts 

mixed greens: watercress, arugula, red leaf lettuce, radicchio 

Place chicken breasts in pan or skillet. Add celery, onion and 
peppercorns. Add enough broth to cover chicken. Bring to a boil, 
then reduce heat to medium-low. Cook until just tender, about 
20 minutes. Cool chicken and remove skin. Pull chicken off bone 
in strips. 

In a saucepan, combine olive oil, vinegar and walnuts. Cook 
until somewhat thickened and liquid is reduced. 
Wash greens and tear into pieces. Place greens on four salad 
dishes, then arrange chicken on each plate of greens. 
Pour oil-vinegar mixture on top. 

FREE Cookbooks!! Stop Searching, Start Cooking! 
http://www.e-cookbooks.net 



Poached Chicken and Walnut Salad 



22 



Sugar Snap Salad 



4 cups bibb (or butter) lettuce 

4 cups sugar snap peas, string removed 

3 tablespoons minced shallots 

4 teaspoons sherry vinegar 
salt and black pepper, to taste 

7 teaspoons extra-virgin olive oil 

1/2 cup roughly chopped fresh basil 

3 tablespoons chopped italian flat leaf parsley 

Wash and dry the lettuce and tear into bite-sized pieces. 
Make the vinaigrette by combining the shallots, vinegar, salt, 
pepper and olive oil and set aside. 
Make an ice bath by filling a large bowl with ice and cold 
water and set that aside. 

In a large pot, blanch peas in boiling water for about 3 minutes, 
until peas are bright green and cooked but still crunchy. 
Immediately, drain the peas and plunge into the ice bath. 
Once the peas have cooled and stopped cooking remove them from 
the ice bath. Remove excess water from peas by blotting with a 
paper towel. Up to this point, the salad can be made a day in 
advance, refrigerated as separate components. Use the lettuce 
to line the bottom of a serving dish and add peas, basil, and 
parsley to another bowl. Add vinaigrette and toss. Put this 
mixture on top of the lettuce and serve immediately. 

FREE Cookbooks!! Stop Searching, Start Cooking! 
http://www.e-cookbooks.net 



Sugar Snap Salad 



23 



Fruit Salad with Champagne Sauce 



1 cup kiwi, peeled and cut into 1/4 inch cubes 
1 cup figs, peeled and cut into 1/4 inch cubes 
1 cup grapes, sliced in half 
1 cup fresh strawberries, sliced in half 

1 cup fresh raspberries 

2 egg yolks 

1/3 cup granulated sugar 
1 cup Champagne 

Heat broiler to its highest setting. 
Divide the cut fruits into 4 soup plates, arranging them 
decoratively. Make sauce by combining egg yolks and sugar in 
a mixing bowl. Whisk briskly until the yolks begin to turn a 
light lemony color. Add the Champagne a little bit at a time, 
whisking constantly until well blended. 
Place the mixing bowl in a pot or pan and pour about 1 inch 
of water around it. Bring the water to a simmer and continue 
to whisk vigorously until the mixture becomes light and foamy. 
Once the mixture starts to thicken, remove the bowl from the 
heat. Do not overcook. Continue to whisk for 10 seconds. 
Pour equal amounts of sauce over each fruit salad. Place the 
plates under the broiler about 3 inches from the source of 
heat and allow them to cook just until they are lightly 
browned on the surface, rotating as needed. 
Serve immediately with remaining Champagne to accompany. 

FREE Cookbooks!! Stop Searching, Start Cooking! 
http://www.e-cookbooks.net 



Fruit Salad with Champagne Sauce 



24 



Mushroom Antipasto Pasta Salad 



4 cups pasta, cold, cooked 

2 cups white mushrooms, sliced 

1 cup roasted red peppers, chopped 

1 cup salami, cut into bite-size pieces 

1 cup provolone cheese, cut into bite-size pieces 

1 jar (6 ounces) marinated artichoke hearts, (with liquid) 

1/4 cup Italian dressing 

salt and pepper, to taste 

1/2 cup chopped fresh basil 

To the pasta, add the mushrooms, peppers, salami, cheese, and 
artichoke hearts with liquid. Mix in Italian dressing; season with 
salt and ground black pepper to taste. Top with chopped basil. 
Allow flavors to blend for at least 30 minutes before serving. 

FREE Cookbooks!! Stop Searching, Start Cooking! 
http://www.e-cookbooks.net 



Mushroom Antipasto Pasta Salad 



25 



Grilled Caribbean Chicken Salad 



4 boneless, skinless chicken breast halves 
1/2 cup teriyaki marinade (store bought) 
4 cups chopped iceberg lettuce 
4 cups chopped green leaf lettuce 

1 cup chopped red cabbage 

5.5 oz. can pineapple chunks in juice, drained 
tortilla chips 

PICO DE GALLO: 

2 medium tomatoes, diced 
1/2 cup diced Spanish onion 

2 tsps. chopped fresh jalapeno pepper, seeded and de-ribbed 
2 tsps. finely minced fresh cilantro 
pinch of salt 

Combine all ingredients in a small bowl. Cover and chill. 

HONEY LIME DRESSING: 

1/4 cup Grey Poupon dijon mustard 

1/4 cup honey 

1-1/2 Tbsps. sugar 

1 Tbsp. sesame oil 

1 -1/2 Tbsp. apple cider vinegar 

1-1/2 tsps. lime juice 
Blend all the ingredients in a small bowl with an electric mixer, 
Cover and chill. 

Marinate the chicken in the teriyaki for at least two hours. Use a 
resealable plastic bag. Put in fridge. Preheat outdoor or indoor 
grill. Grill the chicken for 4-5 mins. per side or until done. Toss 
the lettuces and cabbage together and divide into 2 large serving 
size salad bowls. Divide the pico de gallo and pour in equal portions 
over the two bowls of greens. Divide the pineapple and sprinkle on 
salads. Break tortilla chips into large chunks and sprinkle on salads. 
Slice the grilled chicken into thin strips and divide among bowls. 
Pour the dressing into two small bowls and serve with the salads. 

FREE Cookbooks!! Stop Searching, Start Cooking! 
http://www.e-cookbooks.net 



Grilled Caribbean Chicken Salad 



26 



Spicy Fruit Salad 



1- 16 ounce can of peaches 

2- 3 inch long cinnamon sticks 
3/4 teaspoon of allspice 

2 large navel oranges 
2 large pink grapefruits 

1 small pineapple 

2 pints of strawberries 

3 kiwi fruits 

2 tablespoons of crystallized ginger root 

Drain syrup from the peaches into a small saucepan. Place peaches 
in a large bowl. Over medium-high heat, heat syrup, cinnamon, and 
ground allspice to boiling. Reduce heat to low; cover and simmer 
10 minutes. Set syrup mixture aside to cool while preparing fruit. 
Grate peel from 1 orange, set aside. Cut peel from oranges and 
grapefruits. To catch juice, hold fruit over bowl with peaches and 
cut sections from oranges and grapefruits between membranes; drop 
sections into bowl. Cut peel and core from pineapple; cut fruit 
into 1/2 inch chunks. Add pineapple to fruit in bowl. Pour syrup 
mixture over fruit in bowl. Add grated orange peel; toss. Cover 
and refrigerate until ready to serve. 

Just before serving, hull strawberries; cut strawberries in half 
if large. Cut peel from kiwi. Slice each kiwi lengthwise into 
6 wedges. Toss strawberries and kiwi with fruit mixture. Place in 
serving bowl and sprinkle with crystallized ginger. 

FREE Cookbooks!! Stop Searching, Start Cooking! 
http://www.e-cookbooks.net 



Spicy Fruit Salad 



27 



