E-Cookbooks Low Fat Recipe Sampl 

VJJE Publishing Co. 



E-Cookbooks Low Fat Recipe Sampler 

Table of Contents 



Introduction, 1 

Personalized Cooking Aprons 2 

A pple Pie 3 

Baked Chicken Breast with Fresh Basil. 5 

Baked Macaroni. Cheese & Spinach. 6 

Baked Potato with Spicy Chicken Topping 7 

Beef Tenderloin with Cabernet Cherry Sauce 8 

Black Bean Lasagna. 9 

Buffalo Chicken Strips 10 

Bulgar Wheat and Fruit Stuffing 11 

Cajun Style Pasta 12 

Chicken Cordon Bleu 13 

Chile-Cheese Chowder 14 

Chili Dip. 15 

Chipotle Turkey Chili. 16 

Chocolate Candy Cheesecake 17 

Chocolate Cherry Layer Cake. 18 

Chutnev Chicken Salad 19 

Cocoa Angel Food Cake 20 

Colorful Chicken Stew. 21 

Corn Noodles 22 

Crab Imperial. 23 

Crockpot Tostada. 24 

Spicy Cucumber-Avocado Soup 25 



E-Cookbooks Low Fat Recipe Sampler 

Table of Contents 



Curried Cauliflower. 26 

Dijon Mushroom Potatoes. 27 

Egg McMuffin 28 

Finger Lakes Chicken. 29 

Gardenburger. 30 

Garlic and Sage Biscuits. 31 

German Potato Salad. 32 

Glazed Roast Pork Tenderloin 33 

Greek Burgers 34 

Greek Chicken. 35 

Layered Pizza Dip 36 

Middle Eastern Roast Chicken 37 

Mississippi Mud Cake. 39 

Nacho Cheese Soup 40 

Orange Chicken with Rice 41 

Oven-Baked Pork Chops. 42 

Pe ppermint Angel Food Cake. 43 

Porkettes 44 

Potato Gnocchi with Sage Cream. 45 

Sesame Ginger Noodles 46 

Shrimp Thermidor. 47 

Smoked Eggplant and Yogurt. 48 

Spaghetti Sauce 49 

Stuffed Mushrooms. 50 



ii 



E-Cookbooks Low Fat Recipe Sampler 

Table of Contents 



Three Cheese Baked Ziti 51 

Two Layer Pumpkin Pie. 52 

Veal Stew. 53 

Vegetable Dip 54 

Vietnamese Sandwiches. 55 

Zucchini Stuffed Chicken. 56 



iii 



The E-Cookbooks Library 

"Home To Over 100.000 World Class Recipes!" 




Low Fat Recipe Sampler 

Get 1 ,200 More Low Fat Recipes: 
Visit The E-Cookbooks Library 

We encourage you to pass along this e-cookbook 
to a friend ... Show them you have good taste! 

Free Recipes In Your Email! 

Subscribe to the VJJE Recipe Weekly 
and enjoy new recipes each week. 
It's fun and it's FREE! 

Click Here To Subscribe 



Introduction 



1 



Personalized 
Cooking 
Aprons 

"Make a mess - 
protect the dress!" 

We'll inscribe two lines of 
YOUR text in a variety of 
colors YOU choose. You 

can be like a 
professional chef with a 
name and title! Create a 

personalized cooking 
apron for yourself or as a 
great gift idea for anyone 
that cooks. 




* Quality Material * 

* Durable Construction * 
* Cut Wide and Long * 

* Extra-Long Ties * 

* One Size Fits All * 



Click HERE For 
Cooking Aprons 



Personalized Cooking Aprons 



2 



Apple Pie 



Crust: 
1/3 cup rolled oats 
6 graham crackers 
2 tablespoons chopped walnuts 

1 egg white 

Buttered flavored vegetable cooking spray 
Filling: 

2 cups apple cider 
1/2 cup sugar 

2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice 

2 teaspoons vanilla extract 

1 1/4 teaspoon pumpkin pie spice 

5-6 large Granny Smith apples, about 2 1/2 pounds 

3 tablespoons cornstarch 

Topping: 
1/3 cup brown sugar 
1/3 cup rolled oats 

2 tablespoons chopped walnuts 
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
2 tablespoons butter, melted 

Set oven temperature to 350 degrees. 

In a food processor, process the oats, graham crackers and walnuts 
until finely ground. Add the egg white and process until blended. 
The mixture should look crumbly not gooey. 
Coat a 9-inch pie pan with cooking spray. Press the crumb mixture 
evenly into the pie pan to make the crust. Lightly coat with cooking 
spray. Bake at 350 degrees for 10 minutes. Remove from oven and set 
aside until ready to use. 

Bring the cider to a boil in a large heavy saucepan over high heat. 
Cook until reduced to 1/2 cup, about 15 minutes. Pour the mixture 
into a large mixing bowl. Add the sugar, lemon juice, vanilla, and 
pumpkin pie spice to the bowl. Peel the apples, cut into quarters, 
remove the core and cut into thin slices. Stir the apples into the 
cider mixture. Sprinkle the cornstarch over the apples and stir to 
combine. Arrange the apples in the crust. 
In a small bowl, mix the brown sugar, oats, walnuts and cinnamon 
together. Pour the melted butter into the bowl stirring to combine. 



Apple Pie 



3 



E-Cookbooks Low Fat Recipe Sampler 

Sprinkle the topping over the apples, pat down with your hands and 
bake at 350F for 1 hour to 1 hour and 15 minutes. The center should 
be soft when pierced with a sharp knife. 



Apple Pie 



4 



Baked Chicken Breast with Fresh Basil 



10 boneless skinless chicken breast (about 2 1/2 lbs.) 
3/4 cup low-fat yogurt 
1/2 chopped fresh basil 
2 teaspoons cornstarch 

1 cup bread crumbs 

2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese 

Arrange chicken in single layer in baking dish. Combine yogurt, 
basil and cornstarch; mix well and spread over chicken. 
Combine bread crumbs with Parmesan and sprinkle over chicken. 
(If making in advance, cover and refrigerate for up to 6 hours.) 
Bake chicken in 375 degrees oven for 30 minutes or until chicken 
is no longer pink inside. 



Baked Chicken Breast with Fresh Basil 



5 



Baked Macaroni, Cheese & Spinach 



1 pound elbow macaroni 
15 oz. low fat ricotta cheese 

1 3/4 cups skim milk 
1/2 cup egg substitute 

2 teaspoons brown mustard 

1 -2 teaspoons Tabasco sauce 
1/2 teaspoon salt 

1/4 teaspoon ground pepper 

2 cups shredded low fat Cheddar cheese 
2 cups torn fresh spinach leaves 

1/4 cup grated Parmesan cheese 
1/4 cup fine bread crumbs 
1 teaspoon paprika 

Preheat oven to 375F. Spray a 9 X 1 3 or 3 quart baking dish with 
nonstick spray oil. Cook macaroni according to package directions. 
Meanwhile, in a food processor or blender, mix ricotta cheese, 
milk, egg substitute, mustard, Tabasco sauce, salt and pepper. 
Process until smooth. Drain macaroni, return to pot and add 
shredded Cheddar and spinach. Stir until cheese melts and spinach 
wilts. Stir in ricotta mixture and scrape into prepared baking 
dish. In a small bowl, combine Parmesan cheese, bread crumbs, 
and paprika. Sprinkle evenly over macaroni and cheese. Bake at 
375F for 25 minutes. Serve hot. 



Baked Macaroni, Cheese & Spinach 



6 



Baked Potato with Spicy Chicken Topping 



4 baking potatoes 
2 tablespoons olive oil 
1/2 cup slivered almonds 
1 cup chopped onions 
1/4 teaspoon garlic powder 

1 lb. boned chicken breast, cut in strips 

2 tablespoons flour 

1 1/4 cup chicken broth 

3 tablespoons lemon juice 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 teaspoon paprika 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
1/2 teaspoon Tabasco 
1/2 cup raisins 

Scrub potatoes, dry and prick with fork. Cook. In a large skillet, 
heat oil and saute almonds until golden brown. Add onion and garlic. 
Saute until tender. Add chicken and cook, stirring, until chicken turns 
white. Sprinkle with flour and mix well. Combine broth, lemon juice, 
cinnamon, paprika, salt, and Tabasco. Gradually add to chicken mixture, 
stirring constantly, until mixture boils and thickens. Stir in raisins. 
Simmer 3 minutes. Spoon over blossomed potatoes. 



Baked Potato with Spicy Chicken Topping 



7 



Beef Tenderloin with Cabernet Cherry Sauce 



4 small filet mignon steaks (about 1/4 pound each) 
1/2 teaspoon salt 

2 garlic cloves, pressed 

1/2 teaspoon cracked pepper or freshly ground pepper 

Cabernet Cherry Sauce: 
1 1/2 cups Cabernet Sauvignon or Burgundy 

3 tablespoons balsamic vinegar 

4 whole cloves 

8 whole pepper corns 
1 bay leaf, torn into small pieces 
1/2 pound fresh Bing cherries, rinsed 
Salt and pepper for seasoning 
Optional: 1-2 teaspoon sugar 

Set oven controls to broil. Line a broiling pan with aluminum foil 
and place in the oven on the top rack to preheat. Trim the steaks of 
visible fat. Rub the garlic evenly over the steaks and season with 
salt and cracked pepper. Set aside until ready to broil. 
Add the Cabernet and balsamic vinegar to a saucepan and bring to a 
boil. Tie the cloves, peppercorns, and bay leaf in a bundle with a 
small piece of cheese cloth. Add the bundle to the wine mixture. Allow 
the mixture to reduce to 1/2 cup, about 15 minutes. 
While the wine is reducing, pit the cherries. Cut the cherries into 
quarters and add to the wine mixture. Cover and cook over medium-high 
heat until the cherries are tender, about 10 minutes. Season the sauce 
with salt and pepper. Add the sugar to balance the flavors, if needed. 
The sauce should have a deep robust flavor but not be too sweet. 
While the sauce is cooking, broil the steaks for 3-4 minutes per side 
for medium rare. To serve, remove the spice bundle from the sauce. Place 
the steaks on individual plates with the sauce spooned over the top. 



Beef Tenderloin with Cabernet Cherry Sauce 



8 



Black Bean Lasagna 



1 - 28 ounce jar tomato pasta sauce 
1/2 cup water 

2 cans (15 ounce) black beans, rinsed and drained 
1 3/4 cups lowfat ricotta cheese 

1 egg 

12 uncooked lasagna noodles 

2 1/2 cups shredded skim mozzarella cheese 

Preheat oven to 375F. Over low heat, simmer tomato sauce, water, and 
black beans. Meanwhile, in a small bowl, combine ricotta cheese and 
egg. Set aside. Using a 9 X 13 inch baking dish, place 1 cup of the 
bean/sauce mixture on the bottom of the dish. Place 3 pieces of 
uncooked lasagna noodles on top of the sauce. Next, spread about 
2/3 cup of the ricotta mixture over the noodles. Top with 1 cup of the 
bean/sauce mixture, lastly about 1/2 cup of the mozzarella. 
Repeat two layers of noodles, ricotta, bean/sauce, and mozzarella. 
Then place on the remaining 3 lasagna noodles and pour the remaining 
bean/sauce mixture over all. Top with remaining mozzarella. Cover with 
foil and bake at 375F for 30 minutes. Remove foil and continue to bake 
another 15 minutes. Remove from oven and let stand for 15 minutes 
before cutting. 



Black Bean Lasagna 



9 



Buffalo Chicken Strips 



Blue Cheese Dip: 

2/3 cup nonfat plain yogurt 

2 tablespoons reduced-fat mayonnaise 

2 ounces crumbled blue cheese 

3 tablespoons finely chopped scallions 

1/4 teaspoon coarsely ground black pepper 

Chicken Strips and Celery Sticks: 

1 teaspoon vegetable oil 

1/2 pound skinless boneless chicken breasts, cut crosswise into 

1/4-inch strips 
1/4 teaspoon salt 

2 teaspoons butter 

1 tablespoon Frank's original hot sauce 
5 celery stalks, cut into 3-inch sticks 

In a small bowl, whisk together the yogurt, mayonnaise and blue 
cheese. Stir in the scallions and pepper and set aside while preparing 
the chicken. Cover and refrigerate. 

Heat the oil in a large, preferably nonstick skillet. Season the 
chicken with the salt. Cook the chicken over medium-high heat, 
stirring frequently, until lightly browned and cooked through, 
3 to 4 minutes. Remove the skillet from the heat. Add the butter 
and hot sauce to the pan and swirl until the butter barely melts 
and the sauce coats the chicken. 

Serve the chicken and celery sticks along with the blue cheese dip. 
Provide toothpicks for spearing the chicken and dipping it in the sauce. 



Buffalo Chicken Strips 



10 



Bulgar Wheat and Fruit Stuffing 



1 1/4 cup bulgar wheat 
1/2 cup apple juice 
1/4 cup dried apples 
10 dried apricots 
1/4 cup raisins 

1 8-ounce package seasoned bread stuffing 

1/4 cup toasted pine nuts or pecans 

1/2 to 3/4 cups fat-free and low sodium chicken broth 

Salt and pepper for seasoning 

Bring 2 quarts of salted water to a boil. Add the bulgar wheat, bring 
back to a boil. Lower heat just enough so that the pot doesn't spill 
over and cook for 1 5 minutes. 

While the bulgar is cooking, pour the apple juice into a micro-safe 
measuring cup. Chop the apples and apricots. Add the apples, apricots 
and raisins to the apple juice stirring to combine. Microwave at full 
power for 1 minute and set aside. 

Drain the bulgar wheat and return to the pot. Stir in the bread 
stuffing, apples, apricots, raisins and pine nuts. Stir in just enough 
chicken broth to moisten the bread. Season to taste with salt and 
pepper. Heat in the microwave for 3-4 minutes. The stuffing can be 
made 2 days ahead and stored in the refrigerator. 



Bulgar Wheat and Fruit Stuffing 



11 



Cajun Style Pasta 



12 ounces linguine 

1 teaspoon butter or olive oil 

2 garlic cloves, minced 

8-12 medium size shrimp, peeled and deveined 

1/2 pound chicken breast meat, diced 

2 1/2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 

2 cups of 1% milk 

2 tablespoons sherry 

1/4 cup grated Parmesan cheese 

1/4 teaspoon cayenne 

4 plum tomatoes, seeded and chopped 

1/2 cup frozen peas 

Salt and black pepper to taste 

Prepare the linguine according to package directions. 
Drain and keep warm until ready to serve. 
Melt the butter in the center of a large non-stick skillet over 
medium-high heat. Add the garlic and cook for 1 minute. Add the 
shrimp and chicken. Pan-fry until the chicken is cooked through, 
3-4 minutes. Whisk the flour, milk, sherry, and Parmesan cheese 
together. Pour into the skillet and bring to a boil while stirring. 
Reduce heat to medium and continue to cook for about 5 minutes 
until the mixture has thickened, stirring occasionally. Add the 
cayenne and fold in the tomatoes and peas. Cook until heated 
through. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Arrange the 
linguine on individual plates and spoon the sauce over the top. 
Garnish with chopped fresh parsley. 



Cajun Style Pasta 



12 



Chicken Cordon Bleu 



4 Boneless, skinless chicken breasts 

1/2 cup diced low fat boiled ham 

1/2 cup shredded low fat Swiss cheese 

1/8 teaspoon minced garlic 

2 tablespoons white wine 

salt/pepper to taste 

8 oz. plain low fat yogurt 

1 tablespoon milk 

1 cup crushed seasoned bread crumbs 

Combine ham, Swiss cheese, garlic, wine, salt and pepper in a bowl 
to make a filling. 

Preheat oven to 350F. Rinse chicken with cold water and pat dry with 
paper towels. Cut a slit in the side of each breast to form a pocket. 
Stuff each pocket with 1/4 of filling. Press to close or secure with 
wooden picks. 

In a flat dish, combine yogurt and milk. Dip each breast in yogurt 
mixture; turn to coat well. Roll in bread crumbs and place in 
well-greased baking pan. 

Bake at 350 for 45 minutes or until done. 
Serve with pasta and zucchini. 



Chicken Cordon Bleu 



13 



Chile-Cheese Chowder 



2 bacon slices 

1 cup chopped carrot 

1 cup chopped, seeded, poblano chiles 

1 cup chopped onion 

2 tablespoons minced, seeded jalapeno peppers 
1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 

3 cloves garlic, minced 

2 (16 oz.) cans fat-free chicken broth 

5 cups diced, peeled, baking potato 

1/2 teaspoon salt 

1/3 cup flour 

2 1/2 cups 1% milk 

3/4 cup shredded Monterey Jack cheese 

1/2 cup shredded reduced-fat sharp Cheddar cheese 

2/3 cup sliced green onions 

In a dutch oven, cook bacon until crisp. Reserve 1 tablespoon drippings 
in pan, remove bacon and set it aside. To the pan add carrots, chiles, 
onion, jalapeno, cumin, and garlic. Saute until browned. Stir in broth 
and scrape bottom of pan to release browned bits. Add potatoes and salt, 
cover, and simmer for 25 minutes. 

Whisk together flour and milk, add to potato mixture while stirring 
and cook over medium heat until thickened stirring often (about 10 
minutes). Remove from heat, stir in cheeses until melted. Serve in 
bowls topped with crumbled bacon and sliced green onions. 



Chile-Cheese Chowder 



14 



Chili Dip 



1 15-ounce Hormel Turkey With Beans, 99% Fat-Free Chili 

1 8 oz. package fat-free cream cheese 

1 cup reduced fat shredded sharp Cheddar cheese 

Allow the cream cheese to soften completely to room 
temperature. Spread the cream cheese on the bottom of a shallow 
casserole type dish. Next, evenly spread the chili over the cream 
cheese. Lastly, sprinkle the shredded cheese over the chili. Bake 
at 350F for 20 to 25 minutes or until heated through. 
Serve hot with baked tortilla chips. 



Chili Dip 



15 



Chipotle Turkey Chili 



Olive oil cooking spray 

1 medium onion, diced 
4 garlic cloves, minced 

1- 2 tablespoons chili powder 

2 15-ounce cans tomato sauce 

2- 3 cups turkey, diced 

2 15-ounce cans red kidney beans 
1-2 chipotle chilies, finely diced 
Salt and pepper for seasoning 

Garnish: Grated Cheddar cheese and sliced green onions 

Lightly oil a large saucepan with cooking spray. Heat for a few minutes 
over medium-high heat. Add the onions, garlic and chili powder. Cook 
while stirring for about 5 minutes. Add the tomato sauce and bring to 
a boil. Add the turkey, kidney beans, and chipotle chilies. Heat 
through and season to taste with salt and pepper. Serve garnished with 
grated Cheddar cheese and green onions. 



Chipotle Turkey Chili 



16 



Chocolate Candy Cheesecake 



1 cup graham cracker crumbs 

1 egg white, slightly beaten 

1 tablespoon light butter or margarine 

1 - 8 oz. bar light cream cheese, softened 

1 - 8 oz. bar fat-free cream cheese, softened 

1/2 cup sugar 

3 egg whites 

1/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder 
1/2 cup plain nonfat yogurt 

1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

2 light Milky Way bars, cut up 

1/4 cup fat-free caramel ice cream topping 

Preheat oven to 350F. Spray a 9 inch pie pan with nonstick spray oil. 
In a small bowl, mix graham cracker crumbs, 1 egg white, and melted 
margarine until well moistened. Press crust evenly into prepared pie 
pan, set aside. 

In a large mixing bowl, combine both bars of cream cheese and sugar. 
Beat with a mixer until fluffy. Beat in egg whites, cocoa, yogurt, 
and vanilla until smooth. Fold in candy bar pieces and pour into 
prepared pie pan. Bake at 350F for 60 to 65 minutes or until center 
is set. Let stand at room temperature about 15 minutes. Top with 
caramel topping and refrigerate until served. 



Chocolate Candy Cheesecake 



17 



Chocolate Cherry Layer Cake 



3/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder 

1/4 cup sugar 

1/2 cup boiling water 

1 package (16 oz.) angel food cake mix 

1 1/4 cups water 

1 can (20 oz.) lite cherry pie filling 

Prepared chocolate frosting (reduced-fat if possible) 

Chocolate shavings 

Preheat oven to 350F. Line a jelly roll pan with wax paper 
(pan should be appproximately 10 by 15 by 1 or 11 by 17 by 1). Whisk 
together cocoa, sugar and boiling water. Cool mixture to lukewarm. 
Prepare angel food cake mix per package directions, using 1 1/4 cup 
water and adding cocoa mixture. Spread batter evenly into prepared 
jelly-roll pan. Bake 20 minutes or until top looks dry. Invert 
onto a large wire rack. Remove the pan and wax paper; cool. Slice 
cake into three equal parts. Start with cake, top with cherry pie 
filling, then top that with more cake and more pie filling and end 
with eke layer. Frost and decorate with chocolate shavings. 



Chocolate Cherry Layer Cake 



18 



Chutney Chicken Salad 



2 cups diced cooked chicken 
1/4 cup mango chutney 

1 small golden delicious or gala apple, cored and finely diced 
1/4 cup finely diced celery 
1/4 cup finely diced red onion 
1/4-1/3 cup low-fat mayonnaise 
Salt and pepper for seasoning 

Mix all ingredients together. Season to taste with salt 
and pepper. Use as a sandwich filling or serve on top of a 
bed of greens. 



Chutney Chicken Salad 



19 



Cocoa Angel Food Cake 



1 1/2 cups egg whites (about 12 egg whites) 

3/4 cup sifted whole-wheat pastry flour or sifted unbleached flour 

1/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder 

1 teaspoon cream of tartar 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

1/2 cup honey 

Fresh fruit (such as strawberries, raspberries, blueberries 
or peaches) 

Place the egg whites in a 5- or 6-quart bowl. Let stand at room 
temperature for 30 minutes. 

Meanwhile, sift the flour and cocoa powder together 4 times; set 
aside. Using an electric mixer, beat the egg whites on high speed 
until foamy. Add the cream of tartar and vanilla. Then beat on 
medium speed until the egg whites form soft peaks. Add the honey, 
1 tablespoon at a time, and continue beating on medium speed until 
the egg whites form stiff peaks but are not dry. 
Sift 1/4 of the flour mixture over the egg whites and fold in using 
a wire whisk or large spatula. Repeat sifting and folding in the 
flour 3 more times. 

Spoon the batter into an ungreased 10" tube pan with a removable 
bottom. Use a thin knife to cut through the batter to remove any 
large air pockets. Bake at 350F for 30 to 35 minutes or until the 
cake springs back when lightly touched. Invert the pan onto a wire 
rack and let cool for at least 1 1/2 hours. Then remove the cake 
from the pan. Slice and serve with the fresh fruit. 



Cocoa Angel Food Cake 



20 



Colorful Chicken Stew 



1 lb. boneless skinless chicken breasts, cubed 

1 (14 1/2 oz.) can Italian diced tomatoes, undrained 

2 medium potatoes, peeled and cut into 1/2-inch cubes 
5 medium carrots, chopped 

3 celery ribs, chopped 

1 large onion, chopped 

1 medium green bell pepper, chopped 

2 (4 oz.) cans mushroom stems and pieces, drained 
2 low-sodium chicken bouillon cubes 

Artificial Sweetener equal to 2 tsp. sugar 
1 tsp. chili powder 
1/4 teaspoon pepper 

1 tablespoon cornstarch 

2 cup cold water 

In a 5-quart crockpot, combine the first 12 ingredients. 
In a small bowl, combine cornstarch and water until smooth. Stir into 
chicken mixture. Cover and cook on LOW for 8 to 10 hours or until 
vegetables are tender. 

Nutritional Analysis: One 1-cup serving equals: 123 calories, 

209 mg sodium, 25 mg cholesterol, 16 gm carbohydrate, 1 1 gm protein, 

1 gm fat, 3 gm fiber. 

Diabetic Exchanges: 2 vegetables, 1 very lean meat, 1/2 starch. 



Colorful Chicken Stew 



21 



Corn Noodles 



1 -12 ounce package yolk-free egg noodles 

2 teaspoons olive oil 

2 medium onions, chopped 

3 cups diced fresh tomatoes 

1/4 cup vegetable stock or water 
1/4 cup chopped parsley 
3 cups fresh corn kernels 
Salt and Pepper to taste 

Cook the noodles in a large pot according to package 
directions. In a large skillet over medium heat, saute 
onions in olive oil until slightly brown, about 12 minutes. 
Add nonstick spray oil during sauteing if necessary. Add 
tomatoes and stock or water; cover and simmer 3 to 4 
minutes. Stir in parsley, corn, and cooked noodles; 
simmer until heated through, about 3 to 4 minutes more. 
Season with salt and pepper. 



Corn Noodles 



22 



Crab Imperial 



1 lb. Crab meat, cooked (imitation can be used) 
1/2 cup pimento, chopped 

1/2 cup celery, chopped fine 

2 slices bread, low cal, crustless 
2 egg whites, beaten 

1 cup low fat yogurt 

dash of Worchestershire sauce 

1/8 teaspoon cayenne pepper 

1 teaspoon dry mustard 

1/4 teaspoon salt 

Juice of 1/2 lemon 

Paprika 

Combine the crab meat, pimento, and celery in a mixing bowl. 
Crumble the slices of bread and add to the mixture. Gently add 
the egg white, yogurt, Worchestershire sauce, cayenne, mustard, 
salt, and lemon juice. Place in a sprayed casserole dish. Top 
with a sprinkle of paprika. Bake at 400F for 15 to 20 minutes, 
until lightly browned. 



Crab Imperial 



23 



Crockpot Tostada 



3/4 pound ground turkey 
1 eggplant, cubed 
1 cup fresh or canned salsa 
1 (6-oz) can tomato paste 
1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley 
1 tablespoon chili powder 
1 teaspoon ground cumin 
1 teaspoon dried oregano 

1 (10-oz) pkg. frozen corn, thawed 
1/2 cup plain lowfat yogurt 

2 cups shredded lettuce 
1/2 cup sliced ripe olives 

1/2 cup low fat shredded cheese 
4 pita rounds, halved, toasted 

Combine turkey, eggplant, salsa, tomato paste, parsley, chili powder, 
cumin, oregano and corn in slow-cooker. Cover and cook on low 5 to 6 
hours. Stir with a fork to break up large chunks of turkey. Spoon 
about 3/4 cup cooked turkey mixture on each pita half. Top with yogurt, 
lettuce, olives and cheese. 



Crockpot Tostada 



24 



Spicy Cucumber-Avocado Soup 



1/2 firm-ripe California avocado 

1 1/2 pounds cucumbers, cut into 1/2-inch pieces 

1 (8-oz) container plain low-fat yogurt (1 cup) 

3 tablespoons chopped fresh chives 

1 teaspoon fresh lime juice 

1 teaspoon salt, or to taste 

1/2 teaspoon chopped fresh jalapeno chile with seeds 
1 cup small ice cubes 

Garnish: diced avocado and chopped chives 

Peel and pit avocado. Blend all ingredients in a blender until 
very smooth, about 1 minute. 



Spicy Cucumber-Avocado Soup 



25 



Curried Cauliflower 



1 whole medium onion, chopped 
3 garlic cloves, minced 

1/2-1 serrano chile, seeds removed and finely chopped 

2 teaspoons curry powder 

1 pound ripe roma tomatoes, seeded and chopped 

or 1 can (14 1/2-ounces) chopped tomatoes in juice 
1 medium cauliflower, rinsed and cut into even size florets 
salt and freshly ground black pepper for seasoning 
1/2 cup chopped cilantro 

Grease the bottom of large saucepan with non-stick spray. Heat the pan 
over moderately-high heat for a few minutes. Add the onions and cook for 
3-4 minutes stirring frequently. Add the garlic, serrano chile, and 
curry powder. Cook for a minute longer. Add the tomatoes and cauliflower. 
Stir to combine and blend the seasonings. Cover, reduce heat, and simmer 
for 15-20 minutes until the cauliflower is very tender. Season with salt 
and pepper to taste. Garnish with chopped cilantro. 



Curried Cauliflower 



26 



Dijon Mushroom Potatoes 



1 medium onion 

1 sweet green bell pepper 

1 small carrot 

1/2 lb. mushrooms 

1/2 cup stock or boullion 

1 tbsp. dark soy sauce 

1 tbsp. Dijon mustard 

1 tbsp. cornstarch 

freshly-ground black pepper 

Chop the onion, deseed and chop the green pepper, peel 
and grate the carrot and slice the mushrooms, halving them 
across the other way first if they are large. 
Saute the vegetables in the water or stock, in a large 
frying pan, until most of the liquid is gone and the vegetables 
are soft. 

Mix the remaining ingredients together in a bowl, adding a 
bit of water if you wish (makes a thinner sauce) and add to 
the vegetables in the pan. Mix well and cook, stirring, over 
low heat for about a minute until thickened. 
Pour over hot, split baked potatoes (enough for about four 
potatoes) with a crisp green salad on the side. 



Dijon Mushroom Potatoes 



27 



Egg McMuffin 



1 English muffin, split 
Butter-flavored cooking spray 

1 ounce Canadian-style bacon 

2 egg whites 

2 tablespoons fat-free half and half or skim milk 
Salt and pepper to taste 
1 slice fat-free cheese 
Yellow food coloring (optional) 

1 . Spray both halves of English muffins with butter spray. Toast muffin 
until it is lightly browned. While muffin toasts, spray a non-stick 
skillet with butter flavored cooking spray. Saute Canadian-style 
bacon for about 1 minute. Remove from pan and place on half of the 
toasted English muffin 

2. In a small bowl, combine egg whites, half and half, 5-6 sprays of 
fat-free butter spray and salt and pepper to taste. (If you like 

the look of whole eggs, add a drop of yellow food coloring to egg 
mixture.) Stir well and pour into a non-stick skillet coated with 
cooking spray. (For best results, use an egg ring that has been 
sprayed with cooking spray. The egg ring will shape the egg to fit 
the muffin.) 

3. Cook egg until well done and place over Canadian-style bacon. 
While egg is piping hot, place slice of cheese over egg and top 
with remaining muffin half. 



Egg McMuffin 



28 



Finger Lakes Chicken 



2/3 cup fat-free mayonnaise 
1 tablespoon salt 

1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 
1 1/2 teaspoons poultry seasoning 
1 cup distilled white vinegar 
4 boneless chicken breasts 

In a shallow glass bowl combine the mayonnaise, salt, pepper, 
poultry seasoning and vinegar. Mix together. Reserve 1/4 of the 
sauce for basting. Pierce chicken pieces with a fork and add to 
remaining sauce, tossing to coat. Cover and refrigerate for 2 to 4 
hours to marinate. 

Lightly oil grill and preheat to medium high. Remove chicken 
pieces from sauce/marinade and grill for 6 to 8 minutes on each 
side or until chicken is no longer pink and juices run clear. 
Baste with reserved sauce while grilling. 



Finger Lakes Chicken 



29 



Gardenburger 



2 Tbs. bulgur wheat 

1 pound mushrooms, halved or quartered 

1 cup diced onion 
1/2 cup rolled oats 

2/3 cup cooked brown rice 

1/2 cup shredded low-fat mozzarella cheese 

2 Tbs. shredded low-fat Cheddar cheese 
2 Tbs. low-fat cottage cheese 

1/2 tsp. salt 
1/2 tsp. garlic powder 
dash of pepper 
2 Tbs. cornstarch 
olive oil cooking spray 
1/4 cup boiling water 
1/2 cup water 

Add the boiling water to the bulgur wheat in a small bowl and 
let sit for about an hour. The wheat will swell to about double 
in size. Steam the quartered mushrooms for about ten minutes 
or until tender. Remove and steam onions for about ten minutes 
or until they become translucent. Keep these two ingredients 
separated and set them aside. Add 1/2 cup water to the oats 
and let them soak for about ten minutes. Drain any excess water 
from the bulgur wheat and oats, then combine the grains with 
the mushrooms, rice, cheeses and spices in a food processor 
and pulse four or five times until ingredients are chopped fine 
but not pureed. Pour the mixture in a bowl and add the steamed 
onion and cornstarch, blending well. 

Preheat oven to 300 degrees. Spray a large skillet with olive 
oil cooking spray and place it over medium-low heat. Measure a 
1/2 cup of the patty mixture at a time into the pan and shape 
with a spoon into a 3" round patty that is about 1/2" thick. 
Cook for two to four minutes per side or until light brown on 
the surface. When all of the patties have been browned, arrange 
them on a lightly sprayed baking sheet and bake them for 20 to 25 
minutes in the oven. Be sure to turn them over halfway through the 
cooking time. Patties may be frozen once they have cooled. 



Gardenburger 



30 



Garlic and Sage Biscuits 



2 1/4 cups all purpose flour 
1/4 cup whole-wheat flour 

1 teaspoon sugar 

1 teaspoon dried sage 

1/2 teaspoon baking powder 

1/2 teaspoon baking soda 

1/4 teaspoon salt 

1 clove garlic chopped finely 

3 tablespoons regular margarine or butter 
3/4 cup & 2 tablespoons of fat-free buttermilk 

Coat a baking sheet with non-stick spray and set aside. 
In a large bowl stir together the all-purpose flour, whole-wheat 
flour, sugar, sage, baking powder, baking soda, salt and garlic. 
Add the margarine or butter. Using a pastry blender cut the margarine 
or butter into the flour mixture until coarse crumbs form. Add the 
buttermilk and stir to form a soft dough. 

Place the dough on a floured surface and gently knead to form a ball. 
Roll out the dough until it is about 3/4 inch thick. Cut into 12 round 
circles and place on the prepared baking sheet. 
Bake at 400 degrees for 18 to 20 minutes or until the biscuits are 
golden brown. 



Garlic and Sage Biscuits 



31 



German Potato Salad 



1 Pkg. frozen vegetarian bacon, thawed and chopped 

1 tablespoon flour 
1/4 cup of sugar 

1/3 cup of white vinegar 
2/3 cup of hot water 

2 pounds of white potatoes, boiled for 25 minutes, covered 
until just tender 

8 to 10 green onions, finely chopped (1 cup) 

1/2 teaspoon of salt 

1/8 teaspoon ground black pepper 

In a non-stick skillet cook bacon over low heat, stirring 
constantly for about 8 minutes or until crispy. 
Add flour and stir for about one minute. Combine sugar, vinegar, 
hot water and add to bacon mixture. Cook, stirring constantly, 
until sauce thickens. 

Drain potatoes well, cool, peel and slice. Add to the sauce 
along with the onion, salt and pepper. Serve warm or chilled. 



German Potato Salad 



32 



Glazed Roast Pork Tenderloin 



1/4 cup Dijon mustard 
2 tablespoons orange juice 
2 tablespoons honey 

1 teaspoon grated orange rind 
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
1/8 teaspoon ground allspice 

2 lbs pork tenderloin, trimmed of all visible fat 

Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. 

In a small bowl, whisk together the mustard, orange juice, honey, 
orange rind, cinnamon and allspice. Set aside. 
Place the pork on a rack in a shallow roasting pan. Insert a meat 
thermometer into the center of the pork. Roast for 30 minutes, or 
until the thermometer registers 160F. During the last 10 minutes of 
roasting, brush the pork occasionally with the mustard mixture. 
Remove from the oven and let stand for 5 minutes before slicing 
and serving. 



Glazed Roast Pork Tenderloin 



33 



Greek Burgers 



2 garlic cloves, minced 

3 tablespoons fresh mint, chopped 
1-1/2 cups non/lowfat yogurt 

1- 1/2 pounds ground turkey, lean 

2- 1/4 teaspoons feta cheese, crumbled 
6 pita bread loaves, cut in half 

1-1/2 tomatoes, sliced 

1-1/2 red onions, sliced 

fresh ground black pepper, to taste 

Combine garlic and mint in a small bowl and mash. Add yogurt, 
mix, and set aside. Combine turkey and feta cheese in a mixing 
bowl. Form into 8 patties and sprinkle with pepper. Broil 5-10 
minutes per side or until turkey is cooked through. 
Serve in pita bread with tomatoes, onions and yogurt sauce. 



Greek Burgers 



34 



Greek Chicken 



2 teaspoons olive oil 

4 chicken breast halves on the bone, skin removed 

1/2 medium onion, minced 

2 cloves garlic, minced 

1 - 14 1/2 ounce can cut-up tomatoes 

1/2 teaspoon cinnamon 

1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper 

Salt and black pepper to taste 

1/2 cup Greek olives, cut in half and pitted 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 

1/4 cup minced parsley 

In a large nonstick skillet, heat olive oil over medium heat. 
Brown chicken on both sides. Add onion and garlic; cook 2 minutes. 
Add tomatoes with their liquid to the pan with the cinnamon, 
cayenne, salt, pepper and olives. Simmer, covered, 15 minutes. 
Turn chicken and continue cooking 10-15 minutes, until chicken 
tests done. Remove chicken to a warm platter. Bring sauce to boil 
with lemon and parsley. Boil a few minutes until slightly 
thickened. Pour over chicken. Serve with rice or noodles. 



Greek Chicken 



35 



Layered Pizza Dip 



8 ounce container fat-free cream cheese 

1/2 cup chunky pizza sauce 

1/4 cup chopped green pepper 

1/3 cup thinly sliced mushrooms 

1/4 cup minced onions 

1 cup reduced fat shredded Cheddar cheese 

Heat oven to 350F. Using a 9" pie pan, layer all ingredients 
in order listed, starting by spreading cream cheese evenly over 
bottom of the pie pan. Bake 15 minutes or until dip is hot and 
cheese is melted. Serve warm with crackers or chips. 



Layered Pizza Dip 



36 



Middle Eastern Roast Chicken 



2 teaspoons dried orange peel or freshly grated orange zest 
1 teaspoon garlic powder 

1 teaspoon ground coriander 
3/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 
1/2 teaspoon salt 

1/4 teaspoon ground white pepper 

1/8 teaspoon ground cardamom or cloves 

1/8 teaspoon cayenne pepper 

1-2 tablespoons canola or saffron oil 

1 8-10 pound roasting chicken, capon or small turkey 

Orange Scented Gravy 
1-2 cups fat free and low sodium chicken broth 
1/2 cup orange juice 

3 tablespoons flour 
1/3 cup Madeira 

Salt and pepper for seasoning 

Set oven temperature to 325 degrees. Combine the orange peel, garlic 
powder, coriander, cinnamon, salt, white pepper, cardamom and cayenne 
pepper together in a small bowl. Set aside a large roasting pan fitted 
with a rack. Remove the giblets from inside the chicken. Discard or 
reserve for another use. Rinse the bird inside and out with cold 
running water. Place on a working surface and pat dry with paper 
towels. Remove any visible fat with poultry shears. Very carefully 
loosen the skin from around the breast, thigh, leg and neck areas with 
a spoon without tearing the skin. Season the inside cavity with about 
1/3 of the spice mixture. Rub the remaining mixture under the skin as 
evenly as possible. Lightly oil the outside with canola oil. Tuck the 
wings under the bird and tie the legs together loosely. Place in the 
roasting pan and roast for 15 minutes per pound or until the internal 
temperature registers 180F degrees. Use an instant read thermometer 
placed between the thigh and the body without touching bone. Remove 
the bird from the oven, transfer to a carving board, cover with 
aluminum foil and let rest for 20 minutes before carving. 

Pour the pan juices into a bowl. Let the juices settle. The fat will 
float to the top. Skim off the fat with a spoon or use a turkey baster 
to siphon the juices from the bottom of the bowl. Add enough chicken 
broth to measure 2 1/2 cups and pour into a saucepan. Add the orange 
juice and bring to a boil. Mix the flour and Madeira together to make 



Middle Eastern Roast Chicken 



37 



E-Cookbooks Low Fat Recipe Sampler 

a slurry. Slowly pour into the gravy while whisking. Cook over 
medium-high heat for 5-10 minutes stirring occasionally. Season to 
taste with salt and pepper. 



Middle Eastern Roast Chicken 



38 



Mississippi Mud Cake 



6 tablespoons soft, reduced-calorie margarine, melted 

1 1/2 cups sugar 

1/2 cup cocoa powder, sifted 

1/2 cups all-purpose flour 

1/2 cup self-rising flour 

1/3 cup ground almonds 

3 egg whites 

1 . Preheat oven to 375F. 

2. Coat base and sides of a 6-inch square 
nonstick pan with cooking spray. 

3. Combine margarine and sugar in a medium bowl. 
Stir in cocoa, flours and almonds. 

4. Beat egg whites in a small bowl with electric mixer 
until soft peaks form. Fold into cocoa mixture. 

5. Spread into prepared pan. Bake about 40 minutes. 

6. Cool in pan. Cut into 8 slices and serve. 



Mississippi Mud Cake 



39 



Nacho Cheese Soup 



1 can (1 1 oz.) whole kernel corn, drained 

1 can (14-15 oz.) diced tomatoes and green chilies, undrained 
hot pepper sauce, to taste 

2 cups water 

1 package (5 1/4 oz.) Au Gratin Potatoes (with cheese packet) 

2 cups skim milk 

1 cup (about 5 oz.) light Velveeta cheese, cubed 

In a large pot, combine the contents of the Au Gratin potatoes 
package (with cheese packet), corn, tomatoes, and water. Mix 
well and bring to a boil. Reduce heat, cover and simmer for 
15 to 20 minutes or until potatoes are tender. Add milk, 
cheese, and hot sauce. Cook and stir frequently until the 
cheese is completely melted. 



Nacho Cheese Soup 



40 



Orange Chicken with Rice 



1 tablespoon canola or olive oil 

4 boneless, skinless chicken breasts; cut in 1/2 inch strips 

Lemon pepper seasoning 

1/4 cup low-fat or fat-free ranch salad dressing 

1/2 cup orange juice 

1/4 cup low-fat mayonnaise 

2 tablespoons brown sugar 
1 cup instant rice 

1 green pepper; julienned 

1 can (1 1 oz.) mandarin oranges; drained 

In a large skillet that has a lid, heat oil over medium heat. 
Add chicken, cook and stir about 5 to 7 minutes. Sprinkle 
liberally with lemon pepper while cooking. In a medium bowl, 
combine mayonnaise, ranch dressing, orange juice, and brown 
sugar. Stir mixture into chicken, mix well. Add rice and green 
pepper; bring to a boil. Cook 5 minutes. Remove from heat and 
add mandarin oranges. Cover and let stand 5 minutes. 



Orange Chicken with Rice 



41 



Oven-Baked Pork Chops 



4 - 3 to 4 ounce lean pork chops, well-trimmed 
1 cup low-fat buttermilk 

1 cup fine bread crumbs 

2 teaspoons dried basil 
2 teaspoons paprika 

1 teaspoon lemon pepper 
1/2 teaspoon garlic salt 

Allow pork chops to soak in buttermilk (in refrigerator) for 
at least one hour. In a small bowl combine bread crumbs and 
remaining spices. Preheat oven to 425F and spray a cookie sheet 
with non-stick spray oil. Spread mixture onto wax paper and dip 
each pork chop in crumb mixture. Place chops on prepared cookie 
sheet and bake for 20 to 25 minutes, or until chops are no 
longer pink (internal temperature of 160F). 



Oven-Baked Pork Chops 



42 



Peppermint Angel Food Cake 



For Cake: 

1 - 16 oz. package of angel food cake mix 

10 striped round peppermint candies, crushed (1/3 cup) 

For Sauce: 
3/4 cup sugar 

1/3 cup unsweetened cocoa 
4 teaspoons cornstarch 
1/2 cup evaporated skim milk 
1 teaspoon vanilla 

Prepare cake according to package directions. Gently fold 
in crushed candy. Pour into un-greased 10 inch tube pan. 
Bake according to package directions. Cool inverted. 
In a saucepan stir sugar, unsweetened cocoa, and cornstarch 
together. Add evaporated skim milk. Stir. Cook and stir 
constantly until thick. Then cook 2 minutes more. Remove 
from heat and add 1 teaspoon vanilla. 
Chill remaining sauce and re-warm before serving. 
To serve, slice cake and serve with warm sauce 
over each serving. Cake can be decorated with additional 
crushed peppermint candy. 



Peppermint Angel Food Cake 



43 



Porkettes 



1 pound ground fully cooked low-fat ham 
1 egg 

1/4 cup sweet pickle relish 

1 teaspoon prepared mustard 

2 cups mashed cooked sweet potatoes 
1 teaspoon grated orange peel 

1/8 teaspoon pepper 
8 turkey bacon strips, halved lengthwise 
1 can (20 ounces) pineapple slices, drained and 
halved horizontally 

In a bowl, combine the ham, egg, relish and mustard. Shape 
into eight patties the same diameter as the pineapple rings. 
Combine the sweet potatoes, orange peel and pepper. Shape into 
eight patties the same diameter as pineapple rings. On a 
1 5— in. x 1 0— in. x 1 — in. baking sheet coated with nonstick 
cooking spray, assemble in the following order: Cross 2 strips 
of bacon, 1 pineapple slice, 1 ham patty, 1 sweet potato patty 
and 1 pineapple slice. Fold bacon ends up and over top; secure 
with a toothpick. Bake at 350F for 50-55 minutes or until bacon 
is crisp. Remove toothpicks; serve immediately. 



Porkettes 



44 



Potato Gnocchi with Sage Cream 



2 cups whole milk 

1 teaspoon dried sage leaves 

1 cup chopped onion 

2-3 teaspoons margarine 

4 cups small broccof lower, or broccoli, florets 

1/2 cup water, divided 

1 package (16 ounces) potato gnocchi, cooked, warm 

2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 
1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg 
Salt and pepper to taste 

Shredded Parmesan cheese, for garnish 

Heat milk and sage leaves to boiling in medium saucepan; reduce 
heat and simmer 10 minutes. 

Saute onion in margarine in large skillet 2 to 3 minutes; add 
broccoflower and 1/4 cup water and heat to boiling. Reduce heat 
and simmer, covered, until broccoflower is tender and water gone, 
5 to 8 minutes. 

While vegetables are cooking, cook gnocchi according to package 
directions; add to vegetables in skillet. 
Heat milk and sage mixture to boiling. Mix flour, nutmeg, and 
remaining 1/4 cup water; whisk into milk. Boil, whisking constantly, 
until thickened, about 1 minute. Pour sauce over vegetables and 
gnocchi in skillet and season to taste with salt and pepper. Spoon 
into serving bowl; sprinkle with Parmesan cheese. 



Potato Gnocchi with Sage Cream 



45 



Sesame Ginger Noodles 



Dressing: 
1/2 cup creamy peanut butter 
3/4 cup chicken broth 
1/4 cup soy sauce 
2 tablespoons rice wine vinegar 
1 tablespoon minced fresh ginger 
1 tablespoon sesame oil 

1 clove minced garlic 

2 cups trimmed watercress 

1 cucumber, peeled, halved lengthwise, seeded and thinly sliced 

1/2 cup finely diced yellow pepper 

1/2 cup finely diced red pepper 

1/4 cup thinly sliced radishes 

1/4 cup thinly sliced green onions 

18 oz. linguini 

Dressing: Puree all dressing ingredients in blender until smooth. 

Combine veggies in large bowl. Cook pasta according to directions; 
drain and rinse. Add to bowl with veggies. Toss with dressing. 



Sesame Ginger Noodles 



46 



Shrimp Thermidor 



1/4 cup green onions or shallots, sliced 

2 Tablespoons diced green pepper 

3/4 cup fat-free half-and-half 

4 slices Smart Beat fat-free cheese, cut in pieces 

1 can (10 oz.) potato soup 

2 tablespoons lemon juice 
1/4 teaspoon ground pepper 
1/2 teaspoon dry tarragon 
1/2 teaspoon dry mustard 

1-11/2 cups cooked shrimp (tails removed) 

Spray a large, nonstick skillet with spray oil. Saute onion and 
pepper over medium heat until tender, about 5 minutes. Add soup 
and half-and-half; heat slowly, stirring frequently. Bring to a 
gentle boil; add cheese pieces, lemon juice, spices and shrimp. 
Heat completely through, about 3 to 4 minutes. Serve hot over rice. 



Shrimp Thermidor 



47 



Smoked Eggplant and Yogurt 



1 medium eggplant, peeled and chopped 

1/2 cup lightly salted water 

1 1/2 cups plain regular or low-fat yogurt 

1 small bunch green onions, diced 

1/2 bunch cilantro, diced 

1 teaspoon ground black pepper 

salt to taste 

1/4 teaspoon paprika 

1 piece charcoal 

1 - 5x5 inch piece aluminum foil 

1 tablespoon margarine or shortening 

In a pot over medium heat, add the eggplant and water; cook 
until tender and the water evaporates. Mash the eggplant so no 
large chunks remain. Allow to cool completely. 
In a large bowl, add the yogurt, mashed eggplant, green onions, 
cilantro, pepper and salt; mix well. 

To smoke the salad, heat the charcoal over open flame until gray 
and reddish in color. Place the piece of foil in the eggplant 
salad (make room in the center for the foil). Place the hot charcoal 
on the piece of foil in the bowl. Add the margarine on top of the 
charcoal and cover salad bowl immediately. Allow to smoke for 
10 minutes; remove charcoal. 

Chill the salad in the refrigerator and garnish with fresh chopped 
cilantro and a sprinkle of paprika. 



Smoked Eggplant and Yogurt 



48 



Spaghetti Sauce 



1 lb. extra lean ground beef 

1 clove garlic, minced or put through garlic press 

1 onion, chopped fine 

1/2 green pepper, chopped fine 
1/2 cup sliced mushrooms 

2 cups chopped fresh tomatoes with juice, 

or 16 oz. can diced tomatoes 
1 6 oz. can tomato paste 
1 tsp. sugar 
1 bouillon cube 
1 tsp. basil 
1 tsp. oregano 
1/2 tsp. salt 

Crumble and brown ground beef. Drain off all fat; wipe out 
frying pan. Turn beef into colander, and rinse with cold water. 
Pat dry with paper towel; return to pan. 
Add garlic, onion, pepper, mushrooms and cook over medium 
low heat, stirring as necessary until veggies are soft. 
Add tomatoes and tomato paste. Add seasonings and simmer until 
hot throughout. Adjust seasonings to taste and serve over 
pasta with low fat Parmesan sprinkled over. 



Spaghetti Sauce 



49 



Stuffed Mushrooms 



18 large mushrooms 

1 tablespoon olive oil 

1/4 cup onion, minced 

1 clove garlic, minced 

1/4 cup walnuts, finely chopped 

1 shredded wheat biscuit, crushed 

1 tablespoon Parmesan cheese, grated 

pepper to taste 

1/2 teaspoon paprika 

1/8 teaspoon basil 

1/8 teaspoon parsley 

1/8 teaspoon oregano 

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Clean mushrooms and wipe dry. 
Remove stems and chop fine. Heat oil in a skillet over medium high 
heat and saute chopped mushroom stems, onions, garlic and walnuts 
until onion is tender. Remove from heat. 

Stir in shredded wheat, cheese, basil, parsley, oregano, and pepper. 
Stuff mushroom caps, packing mixture firmly. Arrange mushrooms in a 
shallow baking dish and sprinkle tops with paprika. 
Bake 20 to 25 minutes or until mushrooms are tender. 



Stuffed Mushrooms 



50 



Three Cheese Baked Ziti 



15 ozs. fat-free cottage cheese 
2 whole eggs, slightly beaten 

1/4 cup fat-free parmesan cheese 

16 ozs. ziti pasta, cooked and drained 
1 teaspoon salt 

26 ozs. spaghetti sauce (low fat) 

1 cup low-fat mozzarella cheese, shredded 

Preheat oven to 350. Prepare a 13 x 9" pan with cooking 
spray; set aside. In a mixing bowl, combine cottage 
cheese, eggs, and parmesan cheese; set aside. In another 
mixing bowl, combine cooked pasta, pasta sauce, and salt. 
Spoon half of the pasta mixture into prepared pan; 
evenly top with cheese mixture, then remaining pasta 
mixture. Sprinkle with mozzarella cheese. Bake for 30 
minutes, or until heated through. 



Three Cheese Baked Ziti 



51 



Two Layer Pumpkin Pie 



1 pie crust, baked 

2 cups prepared pumpkin 

1 cup cold skim milk 

2 pkg. Instant Vanilla Pudding mix, sugar free 
1 tsp. allspice 

1 tsp. cinnamon 

1/2 tsp. ground cloves 

8 oz. low-fat cream cheese, softened 

1 tbs. sugar 

1 tbs. milk 

8 oz. cool whip, Lite 

Bake pie crust until browned and allow to cool. Mix together pumpkin, 
allspice, cloves, cinnamon, 1 cup milk, and pudding mixes. Mix well. 
Combine softened cream cheese, sugar, and milk. Stir until smooth and 
add 1 1/2 cups cool whip. Spread cream cheese mixture in bottom of 
prepared cooled crust. Spread pumpkin mixture over cream cheese mixture. 
Top with remaining cool whip. Chill for several hours before serving. 



Two Layer Pumpkin Pie 



52 



Veal Stew 



1 pound Veal - trimmed of all visible fat and cut into 1 inch cubes. 

1 cup baby carrots or 2-3 large carrots - cut into 1 inch pieces 
6 to 8 small onions - peeled 

2 cloves of garlic - peeled 

2 large boiling potatoes - peeled and cut into 1 inch cubes 
2 to 3 cups de-fatted chicken or beef stock 

1 tablespoon Worcestershire Sauce 

Pepper and Herbs - to taste (sage, rosemary, thyme) 

2 tablespoons cornstarch mixed with 2 tablespoons cold water 

Heat a large, non-stick, pot on high. When hot, sear meat on all sides. 
Add herbs and seasoning and stir. Add stock and bring to the boil 
(the chicken stock will be more delicate and let the full flavor come 
through). Add vegetables and return to the boil. Cover and simmer on 
very low heat for 45 minutes to an hour or until meat is fork tender 
and vegetables are tender but not mushy. Turn heat to high and bring 
stew up to the boil, remove from heat and drizzle in corn starch 
mixture while stirring constantly. Return to heat and continue to 
stir until the stew has thickened. Serve immediately. 



Veal Stew 



53 



Vegetable Dip 



1/2 cup reduced-calorie or light mayonnaise 

1 1/2 cups plain non-fat or low-fat yogurt 
4 scallions, chopped 

1/4 cup fresh lime juice 

2 cloves garlic, minced 

One 10-ounce package frozen chopped spinach, thawed, drained, 

and squeezed dry 
Raw vegetables for serving 

In a bowl, combine all of the ingredients except the raw vegetables. 

Cover and refrigerate for 30 minutes to allow the 
flavors to blend. Serve with cut raw vegetables. 



Vegetable Dip 



54 



Vietnamese Sandwiches 



1 clove garlic, crushed 

1/2 teaspoon salt 

1/4 cup rice wine vinegar 

1 teaspoon sugar 

1/2 cup carrot, peeled and grated 

1/3 cup thinly sliced white onion 

1 to 2 tablespoons jalapeno chile, finely chopped 

1 - 16" long baguette 

4 teaspoons low-fat mayonnaise 

3/4 pound cooked chicken breast or pork tenderloin, sliced 

1 tablespoon fresh lime juice 

1/2 teaspoon five-spice powder 

1/2 cup fresh cilantro 

With chef's knife, mash garlic and salt into a paste. Transfer to 
a mixing bowl and add vinegar and sugar, stirring to dissolve. Add 
carrots, onions and chilies. Toss to coat. Set aside. Slice baguette 
into 4 equal lengths. Split each piece horizontally. Spread cut sides 
with mayonnaise. Arrange the meat on the 4 bottom halves, sprinkle 
with lime juice and 5-spice powder. Top with the carrot salad and 
a shower of cilantro leaves. Cover with bread tops and serve. 



Vietnamese Sandwiches 



55 



Zucchini Stuffed Chicken 



2 tablespoons margarine 

2 medium zucchini, shredded 

3 slices of bread 
1 egg white 

1 teaspoon butter oil 

1/2 cup shredded low fat Swiss cheese 

4 skinless, boneless chicken breasts 
1/4 teaspoon garlic salt 

dash of pepper 
dash of paprika 

Melt margarine in a skillet and saute zucchini several minutes over 
medium-high heat. Tear the bread into pieces and add to zucchini, 
along with egg white, butter oil, and cheese. Stir well and remove 
from heat. Season chicken breasts with spices. Put chicken breasts in 
casserole sprayed with cooking spray. Spread stuffing over all four. 
Cover casserole and bake at 400F for approximately 1 hour or until 
chicken is tender. Or microwave for approximately 20 minutes at 60%, 
turning after 10 minutes. 



Zucchini Stuffed Chicken 



56 



