RECIPES 



September/October 1997 Backwoods Home Magazine 



Fish 



this gourmet food is fun to catch, 



relatively easy to cook, and healthy to eat 




By Richard Blunt 
(Art by Don Childers) 



bout 
70% of 
.the 
earth's surface is covered 
with salt water, and 4% of land 
surface (another 1% of the earth' total 
surface) is covered with fresh water. In these waters there 
are more than 20,000 recorded species of fish — 15,000 of 
which are edible — and about 35,000 species of shellfish. 
Fossilized evidence and ancient rock paintings from around 
the world show that people have been successfully catching 
and eating a wide variety of seafood for more than 100,000 
years. The Romans, following in the steps of the Greeks 
before them, were fond of fish and were quick to embrace 
such aquatic treasures as crawfish, red mullet, conger and 
moray eel, swordfish, electric ray, and sturgeon. The market 
in Rome featured vast ponds containing live fish brought 
there from the Mediterranean in tanker ships, and fish from 
rivers and lakes from all over Italy were sold in sacks of 
water. The market fish mongers sold live crawfish, sea tur- 
tles, lobsters, oysters, mussels, and every imaginable 
species of salt and freshwater fish. The ponds were con- 
stantly fed freshwater by the same 
aqueducts supplying the * I $N. 

city with water. 

But as centuries passed 
many of the species of 





fish and shellfish * - 
enjoyed by the Greeks 
and Romans lost favor throughout 
Europe and North America. Between the two conti- 
nents, now only a small percentage of the 15,000 or so 
recorded edible fish are harvested for human consumption, 
along with a few popular varieties of shellfish like crab, 
shrimp, lobster, clam, oyster, and scallop. This is odd when 
you consider that in North America salt and freshwater 
alone, there are more than 500 species of fish, crustaceans, 
and mollusks for sale on the commercial market, and more 
than twice that number on the worldwide market. 

During the past 30 years, however, fish and shellfish have 
become more and more popular since consumers have dis- 
covered that seafood is a low-fat, high-protein alternative to 
meat. This revived interest in seafood is also, in part, due to 
a successful long-term marketing effort conducted by the 
seafood industry. The main objective of this effort is to 



Richard Blunt 

introduce unfamiliar species of fish and shellfish to con- 
sumers while providing interesting and appetizing new sug- 
gestions on how to prepare them. In America this campaign 
is having a great deal of success. Today tilefish, mullet, 
squid, rock shrimp, wolfish, goosefish, shark, squid, and 
octopus, along with many other previously unfamiliar vari- 
eties of fish and mollusk that were once considered ethnic 
in our cuisine, are as common in markets as cod, flounder, 
and salmon. Worldwide, the fishing industry has developed 
fishing boats that double as floating processing plants, with 
the capability of cleaning, dressing, portioning, packaging, 
and freezing fish within hours after they are pulled from the 
water. This kind of efficiency brings many varieties 
of high-quality frozen fish to the market at 
very affordable prices. Along with this 
1 perfection in freezing and packaging, 
fast cross-country transportation in reli- 
able super-chilled trucks and planes makes it 
possible for a market in Omaha or Phoenix to sell 
fish as good as anything found in the fish markets of Boston 
and Seattle. Popular television food shows and weekly 
newspaper food columns have given talented chefs a free 
hand to create and present delicious recipes using a wide 
variety of fish and shellfish. Restaurants have also discov- 
ered that their sales increase proportionately with their abili- 
ty to feature high quality seafood at affordable prices. 

Anglers have an even greater oppor- 
tunity to enjoy fish as a regular 
food. They get to catch fish 
seldom available on the 
retail market — fresh water 
sport fish like yellow perch, crappie, black bass, walleye, 




47 



September/October 1997 Backwoods Home Magazine 




pickerel, and pike, along with their salt water and anadra- 
mous (live in fresh and salt water) cousins like striped bass, 
tautog, scup, and chinook salmon. These fish are a gourmet 

food, exclu- 
sive to the 
angler . 
Fishing 
grounds also 
offer successful 
anglers commercial 
species like crabs, clams, oysters, and lobsters, which often 
command high prices on the retail market. 

I have been a sport fisherman since I was a kid, although I 
admit that I have fished more for sustenance than sport. 
When we were young, Dave, the publisher of this magazine, 
and I spent many spring, summer, and fall weekends fishing 
for cod, pollack, flounder, and Atlantic porgy (scup to 
some) in a small bay in Boston Harbor. For about $10 we 
would rent a 14-foot row boat, equipped with two sturdy 
boat rods and two dozen sea worms. The price also included 
a tow to and from Boston Harbor buoy number 5, which 
was centrally located to all our hot fishing spots off 

Hough's Neck. On a good day 
we would head 
home with about 10 
pounds of skinless 
fillets. This is 
enough fish to feed 
15 or 20 hungry people. Even in 
the inflation ravaged 90s, this type of high- 
class, low-cost fishing is still available across the country. 
If you have never tasted fresh flounder or cod deep fried 
or baked within hours of being caught, or fresh trout, yellow 
perch, or catfish field dressed and pan fried over an open 
campfire, you have yet to experience the gastronomic 
reward of eating genuine gourmet food. 

With high-quality fresh or frozen fish, any cook with a lit- 
tle imagination can make use of an easily learned basic set 
of rules and become a master at gourmet fish cookery. It is 
important to note that despite the higher prices one encoun- 
ters today, fish and shellfish are still among the best buys in 
the market. There is no waste in a pound of fillets, a pint of 
shucked clams, or a pound of scallops, and all fish contains 
a high quality, easy to digest protein that is unsurpassed by 
any animal protein. 

The elements of fish cookery 

Fish cookery is basically simple, with handling and cook- 
ing principals that are quickly learned and easy to follow. 
Seafood recipes, however, are at best well-informed sugges- 
tions, because successful fish cookery depends primarily on 
the quality of the ingredients and the skill of the cook. In 
this issue I will discuss the basic talents necessary to ensure 




that your seafood dishes are always a success. Then I will 
share some easy-to-prepare recipes that have been standards 
in my family for many years. 

How do you recognize when fresh fish is fresh? If it is 
frozen, how do you tell that it has been handled properly by 
the packer and the retailer? Fresh fish, from the creel or 
from the market, should have firm and elastic flesh, clear 
and full eyes, bright red gills, a clean pleasant order, and an 
absence of reddish discoloration on the ventral side of the 
backbone, that is, the side of the backbone that's on the 
inside of the fish. Cloudy, sunken eyes, and gray colored 
gills are the first recognizable signs of old, decaying fish. 
When the head, gills, and backbone are gone, rely on your 
sense of smell and touch. If you come across fresh fish that 
is prepackaged, as it often is in supermarkets, don't buy it 
until you are sure that it is fresh. 

When buying frozen fish, look for packages that are 
frozen solid with no air space between the fish and the 
packaging. The flesh of frozen fish should be glossy and 
free of all signs of freezer burn, which causes discoloration 
and dryness. 

What is freezer burn? 

Freezer burn is caused when water molecules in the form 
of ice crystals form on the surface of food left exposed to 
the dry atmosphere of the freezer. Through a process 
called sublimination, these solid ice crystals 
transform into a gas inside the freezer, 
leaving a patch of dried tissue on the 
surface of the food. 
Sublimination is the equivalent 
of high temperature liq- 
uid evaporation, but 
at low temperature. 

If you must freeze fresh fish, freeze it immediately unless 
it is going to be eaten within 24 hours. Since air infiltration 
and water loss are the culprits of freezer burn, select pack- 
aging that is air and water-impermeable. Plastic wrap or 
bags that indicate on the package that they are manufactured 
for freezing, as well as heavy gauge aluminum foil, are 
excellent freezer packaging materials. 

Air cannot penetrate ice, so fish frozen in a solid block of 
ice will be well protected. My favorite method for freezing 
whole fish is to coat them individually in an ice glaze. The 
fish are first frozen without wrapping, then dipped in ice 

water and frozen again. This 
process is repeated, 
usually three 
times or until 
about 78- 
inch of ice builds 
up. The fish is then tightly 
wrapped in heavy-gauge aluminum foil and 






48 



September/October 1997 Backwoods Home Magazine 





placed in freezer bags for storage. I find that freezing pro- 
motes oxidation of the unsaturated fats in some fish, caus- 
ing a variety of off flavors. For this reason I never freeze 
striped bass, blue fish, or mackerel, due to their high oil 
content. 

Never thaw frozen fish at room temperature. Bacteria 
flourishes at room temperature and can cause everything 

from off flavors to outright 
spoilage. 

/"K. i' ifflt Preserving fish 

It is important for anglers to 
understand that the only way 
to preserve their catch is to keep 
it alive or cold. If the surface water 
is cold, a stringer or wire basket will 
keep some species alive for a few hours. For the best quality 
and flavor, all fish should be killed, field dressed, and super 
chilled immediately. Field dressing means simply removing 
the gills, guts, and bloodline that runs along the ventral side 
of the backbone. Super chilling means refrigerating the fish 
in an insulated cooler by laying them on a blanket of 
crushed ice mixed with a little rock salt. One pound of 
course ice cream salt mixed with 20 pounds of 
crushed ice will hold fish at about 
28 degrees F., which is 10 degrees V ■ , ■ i 
colder than most refrigerators. 

Seafood recipes can be the most 
obtuse formulas that you will ever 
encounter. Old Sully, the chef who taught 
me a great deal about the science, technology, and artistry 
of food, made a fish stew that was superb. Whenever I 
would ask him how much of any ingredient he used to make 




Type of seafood 


Amount to buy per serving 


Littleneck or cherrystone 






clams, in the shell 


6 to 8 




Clams, soft shell 


12 to 20 




Round fish, whole 


12 ounces 




Flat fish, whole 


20 ounces 




Fish, pan dressed 


8 ounces 




Fish steaks, bone in 


8 ounces 




Fish steaks, no bone 


5 to 6 ounces 




Fish fillets 


4 to 6 ounces (let the size 
appetites rule) 


of 


Mussels in the shell 


2 pounds 




Oysters in the shell 


6 to 8 




Oysters, shucked 


Vi pint 




Scallops, shucked 


5 ounces 




Shrimp, headless 


6 to 8 ounces 




Shrimp, peeled and 








deveined 


4 to 5 ounces 






Table 1. Approximate 


quantities per serving 





this masterpiece, he would give me one of what he called 
"the relative units measurement:" a little, some, a lot, plen- 
ty, and enough. This little anecdote always comes to mind 
when I read the section of many seafood recipes that is sup- 
posed to tell you how much fish to use. Recipes often call 
for "two whole drawn bass or enough to feed six people" or 
"four pan-dressed trout." There was a time when measure- 
ments like this left me scratching my head, wondering how 
much fish to buy. The difference between the terms "whole 
drawn" and "pan dressed" were also a mystery. 

A glossary of fish terms 

Here are some reliable descriptions of the most common 
methods for dressing fish, followed by suggestions on how 
much fish or shellfish to buy or bring back from the stream, 
when a recipe is not specific on the amounts to use. 

Whole fish or "in the round:" This is fish purchased 
whole just as it comes from the water before it is gutted and 
scaled. 

Drawn: This term applies to fish that have their entrails 
removed, with the head, fins, and scales left intact. This is a 
great way to buy fish if you are making fish stock or plan- 
ning a classic presentation with the head and tail left on 
when the fish is served. 

Dressed or pan-dressed: This is fish 
that has been eviscerated and scaled, 
with the head, fins, and tail removed. 

Fillet: The sides of the fish taken 
lengthwise away from the backbone. 
Fillets are usually boneless, and they are sold with or with- 
out the skin attached. 

Split fish or halved fish: A whole pan-dressed fish cut 
open flat like a pancake on the ventral side of the back 
bone. The bones may or may not be removed. If the bones 
are removed, the cut is sold as a block fillet. 

Steaks: These are cross-cut slices taken from a large 
drawn or dressed fish cut Vi- to lVfe-inches thick. Halibut, 
swordfish, salmon, and tuna are most frequently sold in 
steak form. 

Table 1 will help you determine the amount of seafood to 
buy when the recipe doesn't tell you how much to get. 

The "doneness" problem 

The most important element of fish cookery is for the 
cook to understand that fish cooks faster than animal meats. 
Overcooking is major fault that many cooks fail to solve 
because they feel that fish comes in so many species, 
shapes, sizes, cuts, and textures that precise cooking times 

are impossible to 

pin down. This 

reasoning is also 

supported by the 




49 



September/October 1997 Backwoods Home Magazine 




fact that not all range tops, ovens, bar- 
becue grills, campfires, and so on, 
are created equal. It is not 
possible to account for all 
of the variables with one 
suggested cooking time or 
w temperature. On the other 
hand, all cooks, even the 
pros, need something to guide them through the preparation 
of a new seafood recipe, or even a familiar recipe in which 
an unfamiliar type of fish or shellfish is being used. There is 
a method to solving this problem, but any method for mea- 
suring doneness is useless unless you know what you are 
looking for. Many recipes suggest that fish is properly done 
when the flesh flakes. Well, fish will start to flake from the 
point of being perfectly cooked, and continue to flake until 
it is absolutely mummified from the heat. When any fish 
starts to flake, an experienced cook will also look for other 
important changes in the condition of the flesh. If the fish is 
ready for eating, the flesh, which is transparent in the raw 
and partially-cooked state, will then have turned opaque. 

A few years ago, calculating the doneness factor of fish by 
using what is called the "Canadian method" became popu- 
lar. This method calls for measuring the fish at the thickest 
point, and cooking it for 10 minutes at 450 degrees F. for 
each measured inch. The formula works with some types 
and cuts of fish, but shows serious flaws with many others. 
Many fish taste best when cooked at lower temperatures, 
and by cooking methods that cannot reach 450 degrees F., 
such as poaching and steaming. When cooking large oily 
fish over charcoal, I often bake the fish in the oven for a 
period of time at a moderate temperature and finish it on the 
grill at a high temperature. 

Combining a modified version of the Canadian method 
with the old reliable "test with a fork for doneness method" 
has worked well for me. This modification also works well 
with a wide variety of recipes using compound production 
procedures, such as rolled, layered, or stuffed fillets, and 
whole stuffed fish. Here is how it works. Measure the fish 
according to the Canadian method. This will help you 
approximate how long to cook the fish, regardless of the 
cooking method. If the fish measures 
an inch or more, start testing with a 
fork at the 7 minute point and 
repeat at 2-minute intervals. Do this by 
inserting the fork into the thickest part 
of the flesh and gently turning the fork 
and pressing inward. If the fish is 
ready, the still juicy flesh will show a 
trace of translucence, which will turn opaque as the fish 
continues to cook after it is removed from the heat. If you 
are not conditioned to paying this much attention while 
cooking fish, this will seem to be a little much at first. But I 
assure you, if you can successfully eyeball a hamburger on 





a charcoal grill, you can become an expert at fork-testing 
fish. 

Cooking suggestions and other hints 

Be aware that deep frying, sauteing, and pan frying when 
you're cooking fish are very different cooking methods, 
each with its own set of rules. Deep frying fish requires a 
volume of oil large enough to immerse the fish completely. 
The process is similar to boiling potatoes, except that oil is 
substituted for the water. Most deep frying is done at 360 to 
380 degrees F. The fish should be coated with one of the 
many coatings designed for deep frying including batters 
and other compound coatings that are 
composed with combinations of 
milk, flour, eggs, and corn- 
meal applied in separate 
layers. 

Sauteing works best 1 
with small pan-dressed whole 
fish like crappie, brook trout, and 

yellow perch. I dredge these fish in seasoned flour, corn 
meal, or bread crumbs, then cook them over a low flame in 
melted butter or margarine until browned on both sides and 
cooked through. Liquid batters and compound coatings, 
especially those that employ eggs, should be avoided when 
cooking with this method because they take on a leathery, 
unappetizing texture when subjected to the low heat . 

Pan frying is similar to sauteing, but at a higher tempera- 
ture using oil instead of butter or margarine. Despite the 
higher cooking temperature, liquid batters are not recom- 
mended here either. Compound coatings that use fast- 
browning outer coatings like bread crumbs, cracker crumbs, 
or corn flake crumbs are easier to control when using this 
method, as opposed to deep frying. 

When deep frying fish fillets of any thickness, these coat- 
ings often brown before the fish is completely cooked. Pan 
frying uses less oil than deep frying, which makes it easier 
to control cooking temperatures. Frying in a 7 -inch cast iron 
skillet, coated with Vi cup of peanut oil over a medium 
flame, is perfect for pan frying coated fish. 

When baking or barbecuing whole fish with the skin on, 
cutting diagonal gashes about Vfe-inch deep and 1 
inch apart through the skin will help the fish 
cook faster and more evenly. Cooking whole 
fish may seem odd in an age when the fillet is 
the most readily available form of raw fish 
on the market, but cooking fish with the 
skin, head, and tail attached 
retains more flavor. Ask 
any trout angler who has been 
fortunate enough to enjoy a fresh-landed trout sauted at 
stream-side over an open fire. 




50 



September/October 1997 Backwoods Home Magazine 




When cooking fish that is wrapped in foil, 
leaves, or parchment, increase 
the cooking time a little to 
compensate for insulation 
created by the enclosure. 

Fresh fish should be 
taken from the refrigerator 
and allowed to come to room 
temperature before cooking. 
This will shorten the cooking 
time and retain more of the 
natural flavor. 

Fish cookery, just as with any other culi- 
nary art, can be simple or complicated. The range of flavor 
and texture in seafood parallels that of fine wines, from the 
understated to the clearly defined. Unlike fine wines 
though, the gourmet delight of seafood is more available, 
easier to understand, and the possibility of masterpiece cre- 
ation is in the hands of all who love to cook. In the recipe 
section, I have selected simple and easy to prepare formu- 
las. I have left the door open for you to make your own fish 
choices because each of these formulas works well with a 
variety of species. 

I hope the information and the recipe suggestions that I 
share with you will start you on you way to becoming one 
of the world's dedicated icthyophiles. 



Saute Meuniere 
Amandine 




This is a culinary con- 
cept that I was taught in 
Chef Sully's Fish 
Cookery 101 class — a class 
that never really existed except in my mind as I got instruc- 
tions from him on how to cook. The fancy recipe title isn't 
really the name of a recipe; rather, it describes a very old 
French classic-cooking process. Loosely translated it means 
to coat with flour and pan fry at low temperature with 
almonds. One of Sully's many gifts as a chef was his ability 
to make very simple, easy to prepare items sound as though 
he invited a chef from the Ritz Carleton to prepare our 
Friday seafood luncheon specials during Lent. The reality 
was: Sully at 1 of the ranges with 6 cast iron skillets, and 
me at the other range with the same. When this item, in par- 
ticular, was on the menu, both of us were glued to our saute 
stations from the beginning of lunch to the end. I often won- 
dered if any of the other 25 items on the menu was moving. 
This formula is a classic example of how a seafood recipe 
can be little more than a well informed suggestion. The pro- 
duction process, saute meuniere, is the well informed part of 
this formula; the rest is open to free interpretation. I have 
prepared this dish with cod, haddock, pollack, trout, yellow 



perch, catfish fillets, mussels, and scallops. With this recipe 
I suggest using almonds and mushrooms, but I've 
watched others use red sweet peppers, shallots, 
pecans, and Greek olives. 
Ingredients (serves four): 



6 Tbsp. blanched, slivered almonds 
4 8-oz. skin-on fish fillets, steaks, or pan-dressed 
fish 
Vi cup milk 

Vi cup Wondra flour (I like the grainy texture 
with this process) 
6 Tbsp. butter or margarine 
l A cup fresh lemon juice 
Va cup fresh, sliced mushrooms 



Equipment: 7-inch well seasoned cast iron skillet or an 
equivalent size skillet with a nonstick surface. 
Method: 

1 . Dry roast the almonds over medium-low heat until they 
turn a light golden brown, then remove from the pan and set 
aside. 

2. Dip the fish fillets or steaks in milk, then dredge them 
in flour. Shake off any surplus flour. 

3. Melt the butter or margarine over medium-low heat, 
then saute the mushrooms lightly. Remove the mushrooms 
and combine them with the almonds. 

4. Place the fish in the pan. If you are using fillets, have 
the skin side up. Saute the fish, slowly, over low heat until 
brown on one side, then flip the fish over to brown on the 
other side. Remove the fish to a warm platter and set aside. 

5. Add the lemon juice, almonds and mushrooms to the 
butter in the pan, raise the heat to a medium flame. Stir the 
mushrooms and almonds until they are heated, then pour 
this sauce over the fish and serve immediately. 

Hearty breakfast fillets 

Here is a fish fry recipe that is perfect for small thin perch 
and crappie fillets that usually end up in the freezer until 
you catch enough to feed the family. While on a fall fish- 
ing/camping holiday a couple of years ago, I watched two 
fly fisherman prepare this recipe for breakfast on a chilly 
morning alongside one of Cape Cod's most popular trout 
ponds. The trout were hiding that morning, but the yellow 
perch were grabbing at every thing 
that we threw in the water. At first, 
all of us were throwing these 
lowly fish back as fast as we 
could unhook them. As the sun 
finally started to peek over the 
trees, none of us had yet hooked 
a trout. Finally, one guy, a big man 
with red hair, named Phil, called to his 




51 



September/October 1997 Backwoods Home Magazine 



friend. "Hey, Ace, what did you bring for breakfast, I'm 
getting hungry." 

Ace was a balding man with shoulder length blond hair, 
wearing shorts and crew socks. You don't see many fly 
fisherman comfortably wearing shorts on a cold October 
morning. "All I have is a box of corn flakes and a carton of 
skim milk," he replied. 

Phil then turned to me and said, "Hey, guy, you wouldn't 
have a couple of eggs would you?" As it turned out, I did. 
"Great," he said. "Let's team up and fillet a bunch of these 
perch. They won't win us any trophies, but they make great 
breakfast food." 

The three of us fished for another half-hour to catch a few 
keeper perch. After dressing, we had about two pounds of 
fillets. It took Phil only a few minutes to put this breakfast 
delight together. 

Note: Phil made corn flake crumbs by putting the flakes 
in a paper bag and crushing them with a small log. If you 
don't have a small log in your kitchen, you can use a 
blender, food processor, or buy corn flake crumbs from 
your local market. Also, I've added flour to Phil's coating 

mixture because I feel that 
flour helps to prevent oil 
absorption into the fillet. 

Ingredients (serves two): 



Vi cup flour 

Kosher salt and fresh 

ground black pepper to taste 
legg 

Vi cup milk 

1 cup corn flake crumbs 
1 lb. fish fillets (small thin fillets preferred) 
Vi cup peanut oil 




Equipment: 7 -inch well seasoned cast iron skillet or an 
equivalent size skillet with a nonstick surface. 
Method: 

1 . Combine and blend the flour with the salt and pepper in 
a shallow bowl. 

2. In a separate bowl, combine and blend the ogg with the 
milk. 

3. Place the corn flake crumbs in a third bowl. 

4. Coat the fillets with flour, then shake off any excess 
flour. Dip the fillets in the egg mixture, making sure that the 
fillets have no dry spots. 

5. Coat the fillets with corn flake crumbs. Inspect fillets to 
ensure that each is completely coated with crumbs. If neces- 
sary redip the bare spot in the ogg mixture, then back into 
the crumbs. 

6. Heat the oil over a medium flame. Fry each fillet until 
golden brown on each side. Corn flake crumbs brown 
quickly, and the thin fillets cook equally as fast, so the 
whole process will only take a couple of minutes. 



Broiled fish fillet with piri piri sauce 

Piri piri is a family of Portuguese hot sauces. These sauces 
are used by many Cape Cod chefs to add zip to broiled and 
baked fish. I use the term "hot sauce" in a very broad sense 
because Portuguese piri piri sauces are formulated to com- 
plement the taste of a seafood, not obliterate it with chilli 
pepper burn. I use the sauce when broiling or baking black 

bass, striped bass, walleye, and macker- 
Salmon, tuna, halibut, shark, and 
swordfish steaks also take on 
a new excitement when 
enhanced with this sauce. I 
also make a fiery version of 
this sauce by adding some chilli pepper 
flakes and serving it cold as a dipping sauce for shrimp, 
mussels, and clams. 

When broiling fish, the thickness of the fillet will deter- 
mine the distance to place it from the heat. For fillets that 
are less than 1 inch thick, place the broiler pan 2 inches 
from the heat; place 1-inch fillets 4 inches from the heat. 
Thicker fillets should be placed at least 6 inches from the 
heat. 

Ingredients (serves two): 





1 lb. fish fillets (black bass, sea bass, had- 
dock, cod, pollack, or bluefish) 
Wi cups white wine 
l /3 cup fresh lemon juice 

2 Tbsp. mixed pickling spice, crushed 
Vi tsp. cumin seeds, crushed 

3 cloves fresh garlic, chopped 

6 Tbsp. butter or margarine, melted 

¥2 tsp. paprika 

Enough piri piri to coat the fish after cooking 



Method: 

1 . Cut the fillets into serving size portions and place them 
in a single layer in a glass or other nonreactive baking dish. 

2 Combine the wine, lemon juice, pickling spice, cumin 
seeds, and garlic. Pour this mixture over the fish. Marinate 
the fish in the refrigerator for 20 minutes. 

3. Remove the fish from the marinade, brush off the 
spices and place the fish on a well-greased broiler pan. 
Blend the paprika with the melted butter or margarine, and 
brush this mixture generously onto the fish. 

4. Preheat the broiler and broil the fish at distance from 
the heat that will ensure even cooking without burning. 
Broil the fish until it is cooked on one side. Carefully turn 
the fillets over, brush again with the butter and paprika mix- 
ture, and return the fillets to the broiler to finish cooking. 

5. Heat the piri piri sauce, spread a blanket of the sauce on 
the fish, and serve immediately — if not sooner. 



52 



September/October 1997 Backwoods Home Magazine 




Piri piri sauce 

The flavor of this 

sauce improves 

with a little aging. I 

suggest you make it a couple of 

days before you plan to use it and store it in 

the refrigerator in an airtight plastic 



storage container. 
Ingredients: 



73 cup extra virgin olive oil 

1 medium onion, chopped fine 

4 fresh garlic cloves, chopped fine 

1 12-oz. jar pickled hot jalapeno peppers, drained and 

chopped fine 
1 4-oz. jar pimentos, chopped fine 
1 12-oz. bottle chili sauce 



Method: 

1. Heat the olive oil in a 7-inch cast iron skillet over medi- 
um heat. Add the chopped onions and saute them until they 
are translucent. 

2. Add the chopped garlic and cook the mixture for 
two minutes, then add the drained and chopped 
jalapeno peppers, chopped pimento peppers, and 
chilli sauce. Reduce the heat to low and slowly 
simmer the mixture for 5 minutes. 

3. Let the sauce cool, then transfer it to an airtight con- 
tainer and place it in the refrigerator. It will keep for up to 
two weeks under refrigeration. 

Using all of the catch 

My first formal lesson in fish cookery was how to prepare, 
cook, cool, and store a 20-gallon batch of fish stock. Chef 
Sully used all of this stock to make a clam or fish chowder 
for the weekly soup-and-sandwich Friday special, so we 
made a fresh batch of stock every week. Some flesh always 
remains on the fish bones and head after filleting and steak- 
ing, and every week Sully had 70 pounds of fresh fish heads 
and bones delivered with our regular fish order. "Don't 
waste those bones Blunt; make us a good fish stock." This 

was Sully's way of assigning that 
morning's work to me. 

Today, when 
you mention the 1 
word "stock, 
many cooks, profes- 
sionals included, turn 
pale with thoughts of 
pots bursting with meat, 
bones, and vegetables simmering 
for hours on top of the stove. To the contrary, fish stocks 



require about 5 minutes of preparation and, usually, only 30 
minutes of simmering. Three or four pounds of fish bones 
or heads, a small amount of vegetables, some water, a bit of 
seasoning, and that's it. A good fish stock is essential to the 
successful preparation of fish and shellfish stews, chowders, 
soups, and sauces. The alternatives to a good fish stock are 
water and bottled clam juice. Water does little to enhance 
flavor, and bottled clam juice is a salty, heavy tasting prod- 
uct that masks rather than complements the delicate flavor 
of high quality fresh and frozen fish. 

Here is a simple fish stock that can be prepared in less 
than an hour, reduced in volume to save space, and frozen 
in small plastic containers in two-cup portions. Mix two 
cups of this concentrated fish stock with two cups of water 
and you will have enough full-bodied stock to make a soup, 
chowder, or stew for six people. 

Basic fish stock 

This recipe makes about two cups of concentrated stock. 
Ingredients: 




1 small bouquet garni (¥2 tsp. dried basil, ¥2 tsp. dried 
thyme, 1 sprig fresh rosemary) 
4 lbs. fresh fish heads, and bones 
1 small onion, chopped 
1 small carrot, chopped 
8 cups water 




Method: 

1. Make the bouquet garni by tying the basil, thyme, and 
rosemary in a small piece of cheese cloth. 

2. Remove the gills from the fish heads if they haven't 
been removed already. Discard the gills and all skin and 
wash the fish under cold running water. 

3. In a suitable size stock pot combine all of the ingredi- 
ents except the bouquet garni. Bring the mixture to a boil 
and reduce the heat. Let the stock simmer, uncovered, at the 
lowest possible heat for 15 minutes. Add the bouquet garni 
and continue to simmer the stock for 15 minutes. 

4. Strain the stock though dampened cheese cloth that is 4 
layers thick. 

5. Return the stock to the pot and simmer uncovered until 
it is reduced by half. Do not boil the stock. Boiling will 
make it muddy. 

6. Cool the stock in the refrigerator. Freeze or refrigerate 
in plastic containers. 

That's it for this issue. My fishing rod is near the door and 
I'm out of here. 

(See if you can match the drawings of the fish scattered throughout this 
article with the following: sturgeon, Atlantic cod, swordfish, mullet, sea 
catfish, striped bass, giant rock scallop, pacific littleneck clam, crayfish, 
porgy, coho salmon, tautog, eastern oyster, freshwater catfish, pumpkin- 
seed, flounder, rainbow trout, speckled trout, perch, red crab.) A 



53 



