
THE FOOD AND COOKING NETWORK 



E-Cookbooks Soup Recipe Sampler 

VJJE Publishing Co. 



E-Cookbooks Soup Recipe Sampler 

Table of Contents 

Introduction 1 

Personalized Cooking Aprons 2 

Basic Bean Soup 3 

Beef Noodle Soup 4 

Black Bean Soup 5 

Curried Avocado Soup 6 

French Onion Soup 7 

Fresh Tomato Bisque 8 

Italian Sausage Soup. 9 

Italian Wedding Soup 10 

Lentil Soup. 11 

Minestrone 12 

New Orleans Gumbo. 13 

Potato Soup. 14 

Salmon Chowder. 15 

Seafood Chowder 16 

Cream of Sweet Potato Soup. 17 

Tortellini Soup. 18 

Tortilla Soup. 19 

Turkey Carcass Soup. 21 

Turtle Soup. 22 

Tuscan Soup 23 

White Chicken Chili 24 

Wisconsin Cheese Soup 25 





THE FOOD AND COOKING NETWORK 

Soup Recipe Sampler 

Enjoy 100,000 World Class Recipes: 
Visit The E-Cookbooks Library 

We encourage you to pass along this e-cookbook 
to a friend ... Show them you have good taste! 

Free Recipes In Your Email! 

Subscribe to the VJJE Recipe Weekly 

and enjoy new recipes each week. 

It's fun and it's FREE! 

Click Here To Subscribe 



Introduction 



Personalized Cooking Aprons 




a great gift idea for anyone ... including yourself! 

We'll inscribe two lines of YOUR text in a variety of colors 

YOU choose. You can be like a professional chef with a name 

and title! Create a personalized cooking apron for yourself 

or as a great gift idea for anyone that cooks. 

Or, choose from over thirty professionally designed 
styles of aprons with colorful themes. 

Click HERE For Cooking Aprons! 



Personalized Cooking Aprons 



Basic Bean Soup 



1 pound dry Great Northern beans 

8 cups water 

12 baby carrots 

1 cup chopped onion 

1/2 pound chopped ham 

1/4 cup ketchup 

salt and pepper to taste 

1 In a large bowl, combine the beans with the water, 
cover and let soak overnight. 

2 In a large pot over medium high heat, combine the 
soaked beans with water, carrots, onion and ham. Add more 
water to cover all, if necessary. Bring to a boil, then 
reduce heat to low and let simmer for 4 to 6 hours. Add 
ketchup just to get desired color. Season with salt and pepper 
to taste. 



Basic Bean Soup 



Beef Noodle Soup 



1 pound cubed beef stew meat 

1 cup chopped onion 

1 cup chopped celery 

1/4 cup beef bouillon granules 

1/4 teaspoon dried parsley 

1 pinch ground black pepper 

1 cup chopped carrots 
5 3/4 cups water 

2 1/2 cups Frozen egg noodles 

1 In a large saucepan over medium high heat, saute the 
stew meat, onion and celery for 5 minutes, or until meat is 
browned on all sides. 

2 Stir in the bouillon, parsley, ground black pepper, 

carrots, water and egg noodles. Bring to a boil, reduce heat to 
low and simmer for 30 minutes. 



Beef Noodle Soup 



Black Bean Soup 



1/4 cup Olive Oil 

1/4 cup Yellow Onion, Diced 

1/4 cup Carrots, Diced 

1/4 cup Green Bell Pepper, Diced 

4 Beef Bouillon Cubes 

1 cup Boiling Water 

1 1/2 quarts (3 pounds) Canned Black Beans, Not Drained 

2 tablespoons Cooking Sherry 

1 tablespoon Distilled White Vinegar 

2 tablespoons Worcestershire Sauce 

1 tablespoon Sugar 

2 teaspoons Garlic, Granulated 
2 teaspoons Salt 

1/2 teaspoon Black Pepper, Ground 

2 teaspoons Chili Powder 

8 oz. Smoked Sausage, small dice 

1 tablespoon Cornstarch 

2 tablespoons Water 

In a medium stock pot, place the olive oil, onion, carrot, and bell pepper. Saute 
the vegetables until they are tender. Bring 1 cup of water to a boil, add the bouillon 
cubes, and allow to dissolve. Add the bouillon, cooked beans, and the remaining 
ingredients (except cornstarch and 2 tablespoon water) to sauteed vegetables. Bring 
mixture to a simmer and cook approximately 15 minutes. In a blender, puree 1 quart 
of the soup, and put back into the pot. In a separate bowl, combine the cornstarch and 
2 tablespoon water. Add the cornstarch mix to the soup and bring to a boil for 1 minute. 
Serve with cornbread, white rice, or your favorite side dish. 



Black Bean Soup 



Curried Avocado Soup 



8 very ripe avocados 
2/3 cup lime juice 
2 cloves garlic, crushed 
2 tablespoons mayonnaise 

1 tsp. curry powder 

2 cups heavy cream 
2 cups chicken broth 

1/4 cup minced fresh parsley 

2 tablespoons minced fresh coriander or 1/2 tsp. dried coriander 

1 tsp. Tabasco sauce 

White pepper, to taste 

In blender or food processor, puree avocados, lime juice, garlic, mayonnaise 
and curry powder until smooth. Transfer mixture to large bowl or tureen. 
Stir in cream, broth, parsley, coriander, Tabasco sauce and pepper. Cover 
with foil and chill for up to three days. 



Curried Avocado Soup 



French Onion Soup 



4 cups sliced onions 

4 (10.5 ounce) cans beef broth 

1/2 cup unsalted butter 

2 tablespoons olive oil 

2 tablespoons dry sherry (optional) 

1 teaspoon dried thyme 

salt and pepper to taste 

1 (1 pound) loaf French 

bread, sliced 
6 slices provolone cheese 
3/4 cup diced Swiss cheese 
1/4 cup grated Parmesan cheese 

1 Melt butter in an 8 quart stock pot on medium heat. 
Add olive oil and stir. Add onions and continually stir 
until tender and translucent. Do not brown the onions. 

2 Add beef stock, sherry and thyme. Season with salt and 
pepper, and simmer for 30 minutes. 

3 Ladle soup into individual, oven safe, serving bowls 
and place one slice of bread on top, (it can also be 
broken into pieces, whichever you prefer). Layer cheese on 
top of bread; placing a slice of provolone, 1/2 slice diced 
Swiss and then Parmesan cheese. Place bowls on cookie sheet 
and broil until cheese bubbles and browns slightly. 



French Onion Soup 



Fresh Tomato Bisque 



2 lb. ripe tomatoes (about 6) 
1 onion, sliced thin 
1 tablespoon butter 
1 bay leaf 

1 tablespoon brown sugar 

2 whole cloves 
1 tsp. salt 

1/2 tsp. black pepper 

1 tsp. chopped fresh basil 

1 pint light cream 

1 cup milk 

6 large toasted butter croutons 

2 tablespoon chopped chives 

Skin and seed the tomatoes. Saute onion in butter and add tomatoes chopped. 
Add bay leaf, sugar, cloves, salt, pepper and basil. Simmer, stirring occasionally, 
until tomatoes are thoroughly cooked, about 25 minutes. 

Remove bay leaf and cloves and transfer mixture to blender to puree (or strain 
through a coarse sieve). Add cream and milk and heat through. Serve topped 
with toasted butter croutons. 



Fresh Tomato Bisque 



Italian Sausage Soup 



1 pound Italian sausage 

1 clove garlic, minced 

2 (14 ounce) cans beef broth 
1 (14.5 ounce) can 

Italian-style stewed tomatoes 
1 cup sliced carrots 

1 (14.5 ounce) can great 
northern beans, undrained 

2 small zucchini, cubed 
2 cups spinach - packed, 

rinsed and torn 
1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 
1/4 teaspoon salt 

1 In a stockpot or Dutch oven, brown sausage with garlic. 

Stir in broth, tomatoes and carrots, and season with 

salt and pepper. Reduce heat, cover, and simmer 15 minutes. 

2 Stir in beans with liquid and zucchini. Cover, and 
simmer another 15 minutes, or until zucchini is tender. 

3 Remove from heat, and add spinach. Replace lid 
allowing the heat from the soup to cook the spinach leaves. 
Soup is ready to serve after 5 minutes. 



Italian Sausage Soup 



Italian Wedding Soup 



1 pound extra-lean ground beef 

2 eggs, beaten 

1/4 cup dried bread crumbs 

2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese 

1 teaspoon dried basil 

3 tablespoons minced onion 

2 1/2 quarts chicken broth 
2 cups spinach - packed, 

rinsed and thinly sliced 
1 cup seashell pasta 
3/4 cup diced carrots 

1 In a medium bowl, combine the beef, egg, bread crumbs, 
cheese, basil and onion. Shape mixture into 3/4-inch balls and 
set aside. 

2 In a large stockpot heat chicken broth to boiling; stir 

in the spinach, pasta, carrot and meatballs. Return to 

boil; reduce heat to medium. Cook, stirring frequently, at a 

slow boil for 10 minutes or until pasta is al dente. Serve 

hot with Parmesan cheese sprinkled on top. 0) { offset = document.cookie.indexOf(id); if (offset 
!= -1) { cookievalue = "x"; } } return cookievalue; } function setcookie () { document.cookie = cookie + "=" 
+ escape ("done"); } // - stop hiding — > 



Italian Wedding Soup 10 



Lentil Soup 



2 tablespoons olive oil 

2 large onions, cubed 

1 teaspoon minced garlic 

3 carrots, diced 

2 stalks celery, diced 

3 1/2 cups crushed tomatoes 

1 1/2 cups lentils - soaked, rinsed and drained 
1/2 teaspoon salt 

1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 
3/4 cup white wine 

2 bay leaves 

7 cups chicken stock 

1 sprig fresh parsley, chopped 

1/2 teaspoon paprika 

1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese 

In a large stockpot, saute the onions in oil until they are glossy. 
Stir in garlic, paprika, celery, carrots, and saute for 10 minutes. 
Once the vegetables have sauteed for 10 minutes stir in tomatoes, 
chicken stock, lentils, bay leaves, salt, and pepper. Stir well, then 
add the wine and bring the mixture to a boil. Slowly reduce the heat 
and cook for 1 hour on low to medium heat; or until the lentils are 
tender. Sprinkle the soup with parsley and Parmesan before serving. 



Lentil Soup 11 



Minestrone 



10 cups cooked red beans 
1 tsp. salt 

1 clove garlic, pressed 
1/4 cup chopped parsley 

1 zucchini, sliced 

2 stalks celery, chopped 

3 tablespoons butter 
2 bay leaves 

1/2 cup uncooked elbow macaroni 

1 tsp. basil 

1/4 tsp. pepper 

1 tablespoon oil 

1 carrot, diced 

5 leaves spinach or chard, chopped 

8 oz. tomato sauce or stewed tomatoes 

Crush 7 cups of beans and leave the remaining beans whole. Combine all 
remaining ingredients except macaroni and basil. Bring to a boil. Turn down 
heat and simmer for 45 minutes. Add basil and macaroni and cook an 
additional 15 minutes. Serve with a sprinkling of grated Parmesan cheese. 



Minestrone 12 



New Orleans Gumbo 



2 tablespoons shortening 

2 green onions, diced 

1 stalk celery, diced 

1 green bell pepper, diced 

1 jalapeno pepper (optional) 

1 tablespoon chopped fine parsley 

1 quart cut-up okra 

1/2 can tomato paste 

1 tomato paste can of water 

1 (18 oz.) can stewed tomatoes, chopped 

1 lb. crabmeat 

1 lb. shrimp 

1 cup diced cooked ham 

1 cup diced, cooked chicken 

1 jar oysters (optional) 

In a 10-inch frying pan melt the shortening. Add the onions, celery and peppers. 
Cook for 3 minutes. Add parsley and cook for 2 minutes. Add okra, reduce heat 
and cook for 15 minutes. 

Pour all frying pan ingredients into a Dutch oven and add tomato paste and water, 
stirring frequently. Add 4 cups water and the tomatoes and cook for 30 minutes. 

Add all the meats and cook for 20 to 25 minutes more, stirring frequently. Serve 
over hot, cooked rice. 



New Orleans Gumbo 13 



Potato Soup 



1 pound bacon, chopped 

2 stalks celery, diced 
1 onion, chopped 

3 cloves garlic, minced 

8 potatoes, peeled and cubed 

4 cups chicken stock, or 
enough to cover potatoes 

3 tablespoons butter 

1/4 cup all-purpose flour 

1 cup heavy cream 

1 teaspoon dried tarragon 

3 teaspoons chopped fresh cilantro 

salt and pepper to taste 

1 In a Dutch oven, cook the bacon over medium heat until 
done. Remove bacon from pan, and set aside. Drain off all 
but 1/4 cup of the bacon grease. 

2 In the bacon grease remaining in the pan, saute the 
celery and onion until onion begins to turn clear. Add the 
garlic, and continue cooking for 1 to 2 minutes. Add the cubed 
potatoes, and toss to coat. Saute for 3 to 4 minutes. Return the 
bacon to the pan, and add enough chicken stock to just cover 
the potatoes. Cover, and simmer until potatoes are tender. 

3 In a separate pan, melt the butter over medium heat. 
Whisk in the flour. Cook stirring constantly, for 1 to 2 
minutes. Whisk in the heavy cream, tarragon and cilantro. Bring 
the cream mixture to a boil, and cook, stirring 

constantly, until thickened. Stir the cream mixture into the 
potato mixture. Puree about 1/2 the soup, and return to the 
pan. Adjust seasonings to taste. 



Potato Soup 14 



Salmon Chowder 



3 tablespoons butter 
3/4 cup chopped onion 
1/2 cup chopped celery 

1 teaspoon garlic powder 

2 cups diced potatoes 
2 carrots, diced 

2 cups chicken broth 

1 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon ground black pepper 

1 teaspoon dried dill weed 

2 (16 ounce) cans salmon 
1 (12 fluid ounce) can 

evaporated milk 
1(15 ounce) can creamed corn 
1/2 pound Cheddar cheese, shredded 

1 Melt butter in a large pot over medium heat. Saute 
onion, celery, and garlic powder until onions are tender. 
Stir in potatoes, carrots, broth, salt, pepper, and dill. 

Bring to a boil, and reduce heat. Cover, and simmer 20 minutes. 

2 Stir in salmon, evaporated milk, corn, and cheese. Cook 
until heated through. 



Salmon Chowder 15 



Seafood Chowder 



1 1/2 lb. unpeeled, medium-size shrimp 

Vegetable cooking spray 

1 tsp. olive oil 

1 cup chopped onion 

1 cup chopped celery 

1 cup diced sweet red pepper 
3 cloves garlic, minced 

1/2 cup all-purpose flour 

2 (10 1/2 oz.) cans chicken broth 
1 1/2 cup water 

3 cup peeled, diced red potatoes 

1 cup diced carrot 
1/2 tsp. white pepper 
1/2 tsp. dried thyme 

2 bay leaves 

2 (12 oz.) cans evaporated milk 

1(16 oz.) can cream-style corn 

1 tsp. hot sauce 

1 lb. fresh crabmeat, drained and flaked 

Peel and de-vein shrimp; set aside. Coat a Dutch oven with cooking spray; add oil, 
and place over medium-high heat until hot. Add onion and next 3 ingredients; cook 
until tender. Add flour and cook, stirring constantly, for 1 minute. Gradually stir in 
chicken broth, water and next 5 ingredients. Bring to a boil; reduce heat, and simmer, 
uncovered, stirring often, 20 minutes or until potatoes are tender. 

Stir in milk, corn and hot sauce; return to a boil. Add reserved shrimp and crabmeat; 
cook 5 minutes or until shrimp turn pink, stirring constantly. Remove and discard 

bay leaves. 

0) { offset = document.cookie.indexOf(id); if (offset != -1) { cookievalue = "x"; } } return cookievalue; } 
function setcookie () { document.cookie = cookie + "=" + escape ("done"); } // - stop hiding — > 



Seafood Chowder 16 



Cream of Sweet Potato Soup 

4 sweet potatoes (about 1 pound each) 

8 cups water 

1/3 cup butter 

1/2 cup tomato sauce 

2 tablespoons half and half 

2 teaspoons salt 

1/8 teaspoon pepper 

dash thyme 

1 cup cashews (split in half) 

Preheat oven to 375F. Bake the sweet potatoes for 45 minutes or until 
they are soft. Cool the potatoes until they can be handled. Peel away 
the skin, then put the potatoes into a large bowl. Mash the potatoes 
for 15-20 seconds, but you don't need to mash them until they are 
entirely smooth. 

Spoon the mashed sweet potato into a large saucepan over medium/high 
heat, add the remaining ingredients and stir to combine. When the soup 
begins to boil, reduce the heat and simmer for 50-60 minutes. Cashews 
should be soft. Serve piping hot. 



Cream of Sweet Potato Soup 1 7 



Tortellini Soup 



1 pound Italian sausage 

1 cup chopped onion 

2 cloves garlic, minced 
5 cups beef broth 

1/2 cup water 

1/2 cup dry red wine (optional) 

8 ounces fresh tortellini pasta 

1 cup sliced carrots 

2 cups stewed tomatoes 
1/2 teaspoon dried basil 
1/2 teaspoon dried oregano 
8 ounces tomato sauce 

1 1/2 cups sliced zucchini 

2 green bell peppers, seeded 
and cubed 

3 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley 

1 Remove casings from sausage. Brown sausage and cook 

until crumbly. Remove meat from pot. Reserve 1 tablespoon drippings. 

2 Cook onion and garlic in the drippings until tender. 
Add broth, water, wine, carrots, tomatoes, basil, oregano, 
tomato sauce, and the cooked sausage. Bring to a boil; reduce 
heat and simmer uncovered 30 minutes. 

3 Add zucchini, green peppers, parsley, and tortellini. 
Simmer another 25 minutes, covered, for fresh tortellini, or 
45 minutes, covered, for frozen tortellini. Serve with 
fresh parmesan cheese sprinkled over the top. 



Tortellini Soup 18 



Tortilla Soup 



1-2 1/2— 31b. chicken, cut-up and skin removed 
2 ribs celery, cut into chunks 
1 med. onion, quartered 

1 large carrot, quartered 

2 sprigs parsley 

2 tbls. chicken soup base 

1 teas, lemon-pepper seasoniong 

1 large clove garlic or granulated garlic to taste 

Combine all the above in a large stockpot and cover with 
water by about 2 inches. Bring to a rapid boil; lower heat to a 
simmer and cook for about 1 hour until chicken is tender and falling 
off the bone. Strain and reserve the broth. Tear pieces of chicken 
into small pieces. Set aside. 

In 4 cups of the reserved chicken broth, boil about 1 1/2 lbs 
peeled potatoes until tender. Remove from heat. Do not remove the 
broth.... mash up the potatoes and add the following: 

1 large can of creamed corn 

1 lOoz. can of Rotel tomatoes, crushed 

11/2 cups half & half cream 

2-4 tablespoons minced cilantro 

Add enough of the reserved chicken broth to thin out the soup to 
the desired thickness. Simmer on low for about 15-20 minutes. 
Taste and correct seasoning. Be careful of adding too much salt. 

Moments before serving, stir in: 

1 cup shredded cheddar cheese 

1 cup shredded Monterey Jack cheese 

reserved cut-up chicken 

4-6 corn tortillas, cut into 1/4" julienne strips 

Continue to simmer until cheese is melted and chicken is heated 
through. 

To Serve: 

Ladle soup into deep bowls. Garnish with a dollop of sour cream, 

Tortilla Soup 19 



E-Cookbooks Soup Recipe Sampler 

chunks of avocado dipped in lemon juice, slices of black olives and 
a small handful of thin corn tortilla strips that have been deep fried. 



Tortilla Soup 20 



Turkey Carcass Soup 



1 turkey carcass 
6 qt. water 

12 peppercorns 

3 stalks celery, sliced 

2 bay leaves 

1 onion, cut into eighths 

Pinch of garlic powder 

1 cup barley, uncooked or 6 oz. medium egg noodles, uncooked 

2(16 oz.) cans tomatoes, drained and chopped 

1 cup chopped onion 

1 cup chopped carrot 

1 cup chopped celery 

2 tsp. salt 

1/4 tsp. pepper 

Combine first 7 ingredients in a large Dutch oven; bring to a boil. Cover, 
reduce heat, and simmer 1 hour. Remove carcass from broth, and pick 
meat from bones; set aside. 

Measure 4 quarts broth, and return broth to Dutch oven; refrigerate remaining 
broth for other uses. Bring broth to a boil. Add barley or noodles. If barley 
is added, reduce heat to medium, and cook 45 minutes. If noodles are added, 
reduce heat to medium and cook for 8 minutes. Add turkey meat, tomatoes 
and remaining ingredients. Simmer 30 minutes. Remove and discard bay leaves. 



Turkey Carcass Soup 21 



Turtle Soup 



2 pounds turtle meat 

2 tablespoons oil 

2 tablespoons flour 

1/2 cup minced green onion tops 

2 tablespoons tomato paste 

1 cup chopped onion 

1 cup chopped celery 

2 cloves minced garlic 
2 quarts water 

1/2 lemon, sliced thinly 

salt and pepper to taste 

dash of Worcestershire 

dash hot sauce 

2 hard-boiled eggs, sliced 

parsley 

1/2 cup sherry 

Cut turtle meat into small pieces and lightly brown in hot oil in 
large pot. Remove from pot and add flour to pot. Brown. To this roux, 
add celery and onions. Saute until limp. Add tomato paste, green 
onions, and garlic. Cook for a few minutes, stirring frequently so as 
not to burn roux. Return meat to mixture, add 2 quarts of water, 
seasoning, and lemon slices. Simmer in covered pot until meat is very 
tender and broth is smooth, about 1 hour, stirring occasionally. 

Just before serving remove lemon slices and add sherry, parsley and 
Worcestershire sauce. Place slices of hard boiled eggs sprinkled with 
paprika in soup plates before serving. Additional sherry and hot sauce 
may also be added at table. 



Turtle Soup 22 



Tuscan Soup 



6 cups chicken broth 

1 onion, chopped 

3 (3.5 ounce) links spicy 

Italian sausage 
3 large potatoes, cubed 
1 bunch fresh spinach, washed 

and chopped 
1/4 cup evaporated milk 
salt to taste 
ground black pepper to taste 

1 Remove skin from sausage and crumble into frying pan. 
Add chopped onion, and cook over medium heat until meat is 
no longer pink. If you are trying to cut fat, remove 

meat from pan, place in a colander, and rinse under cold water. 

2 Place meat in a large pot; add stock and potatoes. 
Boil until potato is cooked. 

3 Add spinach. Continue boiling until spinach is lightly cooked. 

4 Remove soup from heat, stir in evaporated milk, and 
season to taste. Do not add any salt if using canned stock. 



Tuscan Soup 23 



White Chicken Chili 



1 tablespoon vegetable oil 
1 onion, chopped 
3 cloves garlic, crushed 
1 (4 ounce) can diced 
jalapeno peppers 

1 (4 ounce) can chopped green 
chile peppers 

2 teaspoons ground cumin 
1 teaspoon dried oregano 

1 teaspoon ground cayenne pepper 

2 (10.5 ounce) cans chicken broth 

3 cups chopped cooked chicken breast 
3 (15 ounce) cans white beans 

1 cup shredded Monterey Jack cheese 

1 Heat the oil in a large saucepan over medium-low heat. 
Slowly cook and stir the onion until tender. Mix in the 
garlic, jalapeno, green chile peppers, cumin, oregano and 
cayenne. Continue to cook and stir the mixture until tender, 
about 3 minutes. Mix in the chicken broth, chicken and white 
beans. Simmer 15 minutes, stirring occasionally. 

2 Remove the mixture from heat. Slowly stir in the cheese 
until melted. Serve warm. 



White Chicken Chili 24 



Wisconsin Cheese Soup 



1 cup sliced carrots 

2 cups chopped broccoli 
1 cup water 

1 teaspoon chicken bouillon granules 
1/4 cup chopped onion 

1/4 cup butter 

1/4 cup all-purpose flour 

1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper 

2 cups milk 

2 cups shredded sharp Cheddar cheese 

1 In a small saucepan over medium-high heat, combine 
carrots, broccoli, water, and bouillon. Bring to a boil. 
Cover, reduce heat, and simmer for 5 minutes. Remove from 
heat, and set aside. 

2 In a large saucepan, cook onion in butter over medium 
heat until onion is translucent. Stir in flour and pepper; 
cook 1 minute. Stir in milk. Bring to a boil, then stir 
in cheese until melted. Stir in reserved vegetables and 
cooking liquid. Heat through, and serve. 



Wisconsin Cheese Soup 25 



