E-Cookbooks Italian Recipe Sampl 

VJJE Publishing Co. 



E-Cookbooks Italian Recipe Sampler 

Table of Contents 



Introduction, 1 

Personalized Cooking Aprons 2 

Antipasto. 3 

Basic Polenta. 4 

Tomato Bruschetta. 5 

Fettucini Romano Ala Fratelli 6 

Calamari Imbottiti ■ 7 

Focaccia Versiliese 8 

Eggplant Parmigiana 9 

Caponata. 10 

Basic Italian Bread. 11 

Risotto alia Parmigiana 12 

Gnocchi Alia Giordano. 13 

Manicotti. 14 

Torta Pi Spinaci 15 

Meatballs (Polpette Alia Casalinga) 16 

Insalata Caprese. 17 

Pasta Alia Caruso. 18 

Pasta Dough. 19 

Tiramisu. 20 

Pasta E Fagioli. 21 

Cavatelli Sausage With Broccoli. 22 

Angel Hair With Balsamic Tomatoes. 23 

Spumone Pi Zabaglione 24 



E-Cookbooks Italian Recipe Sampler 

Table of Contents 



Carbonara Sauce. 25 

Italian Tomato Sauce. 26 

Stuffed Roasted Peppers. 27 



ii 



The E-Cookbooks Library 

"Home To Over 100.000 World Class Recipes!" 




Italian Recipe Sampler 

Get 900 More Italian Recipes: 
Visit The E-Cookbooks Library 

We encourage you to pass along this e-cookbook 
to a friend ... Show them you have good taste! 

Free Recipes In Your Email! 

Subscribe to the VJJE Recipe Weekly 
and enjoy new recipes each week. 
It's fun and it's FREE! 

Click Here To Subscribe 



Introduction 



1 



Personalized 
Cooking 
Aprons 

"Make a mess - 
protect the dress!" 

We'll inscribe two lines of 
YOUR text in a variety of 
colors YOU choose. You 

can be like a 
professional chef with a 
name and title! Create a 

personalized cooking 
apron for yourself or as a 
great gift idea for anyone 
that cooks. 




* Quality Material * 

* Durable Construction * 
* Cut Wide and Long * 

* Extra-Long Ties * 

* One Size Fits All * 



Click HERE For 
Cooking Aprons 



Personalized Cooking Aprons 



2 



Antipasto 



1/2 Pound sliced Genoa salami 
1 slicing tomato 

1 large white onion 

2 roasted red bell peppers 

1 Pound sliced provolone 

2 cans black pitted olives 

1 can baby corn on the cob 

1 small jar of Pepperoncini peppers 

2 stalks of celery 

1 can of rolled anchovies 
extra virgin olive oil 

Use a long platter, and arrange in the following order: 
Salami, provolone, tomato, onion, red peppers, and achovies. Put the baby 
and olives in the center of tray. Take and cut in half celery sticks. Then 
slice each again length wise. Arrange celery sticks in between each 
antipasti. Sprinkle some salt lightly on everything. Then drizzle olive oil 
on everything. Let the antipasti sit covered in the refrigerator till ready 
to serve. Sitting helps enhance the flavors. 



Antipasto 



Basic Polenta 



9 Cups Water 

1 Teaspoon Salt 

3 Cups Cornmeal; coarse-grain 

Bring water to a boil in a large heavy pot. Add salt and reduce heat until 
water is simmering. Take cornmeal by the handful and add to water very 
slowly, controlling the flow to a thin stream through your fingers. To avoid 
lumps, stir quickly with a long handled wooden spoon while adding cornmeal. 
If necessary, stop adding cornmeal from time to time and beat mixture 
vigorously. Cook, stirring constantly, 20 to 30 minutes. Polenta will become 
very thick while cooking. It is done when it comes away cleanly from the 
sides of the pot. Pour polenta into a large wooden board or a large platter. 
Wet your hands and smooth out polenta evenly, about 2 inches thick. Let cool 
5 to 10 minutes or until polenta solidifies. Cut cooled polenta into slices 
1 inch wide and 6 inches long. Place slices in individual dishes. Serve hot, 
covered with your favorite sauce. Makes 6 to 8 servings. 
Variation: Fried Polenta (Polenta Fritta): Prepare polenta and let cool 
completely. Cut cooled polenta into slices 2 inches wide and 6 inches long. 
Pour oil about 1 inch deep in a large skillet. Heat oil until a 1-inch cube 
of bread turns golden almost immediately. Fry polenta slices on both sides 
until light golden. Drain on paper towels. Serve hot. It is importent to 
insure the oil is hot enough, otherwise the polenta will absorb oil and your 
polenta will be greasy and unpalatable. 



Basic Polenta 



4 



Tomato Bruschetta 



1 Loaf Italian bread, halved lengthwise then cut 
crosswise diagonally, into 1 — in slices 

1 Garlic clove; minced 

2 Tablespoon Olive oil 

2 Large Tomatoes; peeled, seeded, and chopped 

1/4 Teaspoon Salt 

1/4 Teaspoon Pepper 

1/2 Cup Chopped fresh basil 

Toast the bread under the broiler until lightly browned. Combine the garlic 
and olive oil and brush over one side of the bread. Spread the tomatoes over 
the bread. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Broil for about 30 seconds to heat 
the tomatoes. Sprinkle with basil and serve. 



Tomato Bruschetta 



5 



Fettucini Romano Ala Fratelli 



1 Tablespoon Olive oil 

3 Cloves garlic, crushed 

1/2 Cup White wine 

3/4 Cup Half-and-half 

1 Cup Romano cheese, grated 

1 pound dry spinach fettucini, Cooked 

Chopped parsley for garnish 

Add the olive oil to a hot 10" pan. Add the garlic, and saute over high heat 
for about 1 minute. Add the wine and simmer for about 2 minutes. Add the 
half-and-half, and allow the sauce to come back to the simmer. Add the 
Romano cheese, and stir until smooth, about 2 minutes. 

To serve: Add the pasta to the pan and toss until coated. Portion onto two 
plates, and garnish with some chopped parsley. 



Fettucini Romano Ala Fratelli 



6 



Calamari Imbottiti 



8 small squid 

1 small onion,chopped 

2 tablespoons raisins 
1-1/2 cups bread crumbs 

1 teaspoon minced parsley 

2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese 
salt and pepper 

1 egg ,well beaten 
1 #2 can tomatoes 
4 tablespoon olive oil 
1 clove garlic 

Have fish dealer clean squid thoroughly, removing eyes, outside skin and 
intestines. Cut off heads and tentacles. Wash well, and drain. Combine 
remaining ingredients, and fill the cavity in each squid with stuffing. Sew 
squid closed, or fasten with toothpicks. Place in baking dish or pan, and 
cover with the following sauce: 1 #2 can tomatoes, 4 tablespoon olive oil, 
1 clove garlic. Brown garlic in oil, mash tomatoes with fork, and add. 
Simmer for 1 minutes. Then pour over squid and bake in hot oven 400 degree 
for 35 minutes, or until tender. Serve whole with sauce. 



Calamari Imbottiti 



7 



Focaccia Versiliese 



2 Teaspoon dried yeast 
1 Cup warm water 

1 Tablespoon olive oil 

1 Tablespoon rosemary, chopped 
4 sage leaves, torn 

3 1/2 Ounce olives, pitted 

2 Tablespoon garlic, minced 

2 Cup unbleached all-purpose flour 

1 Cup corn flour 

2 Teaspoon salt 

2 Teaspoon olive oil 

Stir the yeast into a alrge mixing bowl with the water & let proof for 10 
minutes. Stir in the olive oil, rosemary, sage, olives & garlic. Using a 
wooden spoon, mix in the flours & salt & stir until the dough is thick & 
smooth. Knead by hand for 8 to 1 minutes until the dough is firm & elastic. 

Set the dough in a lightly oiled container, cover with plastic wrap & let 
rise until doubled. Turn the dough onto an oiled 10 1/2" X 15 1/2" baking 
pan & stretch it to fit. If it won't fit, let it rest for 10 minutes & try 
again. Cover with a towel & leave until it has half risen, about 30 minutes. 

30 minutes before baking, preheat oven to 400F. Just before baking, dimple 
the top of the dough with your fingertips & sprinkle with some extra salt & 
2 ts of oil. Bake for 25 to 30 minutes until golden. Slide off baking sheet 
onto a rack & let cool for a few minutes before eating warm or at room 
temperature. 

VARIATION: Focaccia Dolce. Substitute 2 oz raisins & 1 oz pine nuts for the 
olives, herbs & garlic. Soak the raisins in warm water for 30 minutes before 
using & toast the pine nuts. 



Focaccia Versiliese 



8 



Eggplant Parmigiana 



2 Small Eggplants; unpeeled cut into 1/4-inch rounds 
2 Eggs; lightly beaten 
1-1/2 Cup Bread crumbs 
1/2 Teaspoon Salt 
1/8 Teaspoon Pepper 

1 Garlic cloves peeled and halved 
3/4 Cup Olive oil 

20 Ounce Tomatoes, canned 
1/3 Cup Tomato paste 

2 Tablespoon Minced basil 
1 Teaspoon Salt 

1/8 Teaspoon Pepper 

1 Cup Grated Parmesan cheese 

1/2 Pound Mozzarella cheese; thinly sliced 

Dip eggplant slices in eggs, then in bread crumbs seasoned with salt and 
pepper. Refrigerate 20 minutes. In a large saucepan, saute garlic in 2 
tablespoons oil for 1-2 minutes. Remove garlic and add tomatoes, tomato 
paste, basil, salt and pepper. Cover and simmer 30 minutes. Preheat oven to 
350F. Brown eggplant in 1/4-inch oil in a large skillet. Drain on paper 
towels. Put a thin layer of tomato sauce into a baking dish and layer 
eggplant, sauce, Parmesan and mozzarella, alternately. End with mozzarella 
on top. Bake, uncovered, for 30 minutes. 



Eggplant Parmigiana 



9 



Caponata 



2 LARGE EGGPLANTS 

1 Teaspoon SALT 
3/4 Cup OLIVE OIL 

2 CLOVES GARLIC, CRUSHED 

2 ONIONS, CHOPPED 

1 Pound PLUM TOMATOES, Quartered 

3 CELERY STALKS, DICED 

1 Pound CAN PITTED BLACK OLIVES 
12 Ounce JAR OLIVE SALAD 

1/4 Cup CAPERS 

1/2 Cup PINE NUTS 

1/4 Cup RED WINE VINEGAR 

2 Teaspoon SUGAR 

SALT AND PEPPER TO TASTE 

Wash and cube unpeeled eggplant. Salt and let stand 1 hour. Squeeze dry. 
Saute in oil until soft. Remove. Saute onions and garlic in same oil. Add 
tomatoes, olives, and celery. Cook until tender — 15 minutes. Add eggplant, 
capers, and pine nuts. In another pan heat vinegar and sugar. When 
dissolved, pour over eggplant. Season to taste and cook an additional 20 
minutes. Serve hot or cold as relish with dinner or with trench bread rounds 
as a buffet or cocktail dish. 



Caponata 



10 



Basic Italian Bread 



Biga: 

1/2 Teas. Active Dry Yeast 

1 Cup Lukewarm water 

2 Cups Unbleached, All-purpose Flour 

Mix the yeast and water together, and then slowly start adding the 
flour, mixing well. Cover with plastic wrap and let sit at room 
temperature for up to 6 hours. Refrigerate overnight. 

Bread: 

2 Cups Warm Water (about 90 degrees F.) 

1 Pkg. Active Dry Yeast 

5-6 Cups All-purpose, Unbleached Flour 

2 Ts. Salt 

Place the water in a large bowl, sprinkle the yeast overtop and mix well. 
Let sit 10 minutes until bubbly. Add the biga, flour, and salt and stir with 
a wooden spoon (or mix with your hands) until everything is mixed. The dough 
will be fairly wet and sticky at this point. Cover and let stand in a warm 
spot for about 1 to 1 1/2 hours until doubled in volume. 

Punch down the dough, folding it over on itself two or three times, cover 
and let rise once more until doubled, about 1 hour. If you choose, you could 
refrigerate your dough at this time and leave it overnight to prepare the 
next day. 

Turn out your dough onto a floured baking sheet, and without overworking it 
too much shape into one large or two smaller round or oval shaped loaves, 
using as much extra flour as needed to keep it from sticking. Slash across 
the tops of the loaves with a serrated knife or razor just prior to baking. 

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. and place a casserole dish with boiling 
water on the lower oven rack. Bake your bread 30 minutes, turn the baking 
sheet around, and reduce the heat to 300 degrees and bake for another 30-45 
minutes. At this point your bread should be golden brown and should sound 
hollow when you tap the bottom. Allow the bread to cool to room temperature 
and serve. 



Basic Italian Bread 



11 



Risotto alia Parmigiana 



2 tablespoons unsalted butter 

2 tablespoons olive oil 

1 medium onion, finely chopped 

1 pound Arborio rice 

6 cups chicken stock, hot 

2 tablespoons butter 

3 ounces Parmagiano Reggiano cheese, coarsely grated 

Heat the butter and oil in a large, straight-sided saute pan or saucepan. 
Add the onion, and saute until soft, without browning. 

Add the rice, and saute for 2 minutes until the rice is well-coated. Ladle 
1/2 cup of stock into the rice, stirring constantly, until all the liquid is 
absorbed and the rice is almost dry. Add more stock, 1/2 cup at a time, 
until it's all absorbed by the rice and the rice is al dente. 
The rice should be very moist and creamy, but not runny; 
the rice should be firm but tender, not crunchy. 

Remove from heat, and stir in the raw butter and the Parmagiano cheese. Salt 
to taste, and serve immediately. 



Risotto alia Parmigiana 



12 



Gnocchi Alia Giordano 



2 pounds Baking potatoes 
1 cup All-purpose flour 
1 Whole egg plus 

1 Egg yolk, lightly beaten 

2 tablespoons Unsalted butter, softened 
1 teaspoon Salt 

Freshly grated Parmesan cheese 
Tomato sauce 

Boil the potatoes in their jackets, drain, peel and put through a ricer or 
food mill. While the potatoes are still warm, blend in the flour, add the 
egg, egg yolk, butter and salt. 

Place the potato mixture on a floured board and knead lightly; the dough 
will be soft. Roll the dough in 1" thick sticks about 10" long. Cut each 
roll into 3/4" pieces. 

Rub each pieces of dough lightly over the coarse side of a cheese grater. In 
a large pot of boiling salted water, cook the gnocchi until they rise to the 
top of the water. Using a slotted spoon, remove the gnocchi to a warm bowl. 
Sprinkle with Parmesan cheese, top with tomato sauce and serve at once. 



Gnocchi Alia Giordano 



13 



Manicotti 



1 lb. ricotta cheese 

1 1/2 lbs. mozzarella cheese (grated), divided 
1/4 cup romano cheese (grated) 
Salt and pepper 

1/4 cup provolone cheese (grated) 
Parsley (chopped) 
3 eggs 

2-3 cups tomato sauce 

Combine all ingredients together, except tomato sauce. Mix well. 
(Use 1 lb. mozzarella cheese) 

Spread some tomato sauce on the bottom of a baking pan. Stuff manicotti 
shells and place in pan. Spread more tomato sauce in between each layer and 
on the top, followed by 1/2 lb. of just mozzarella cheese. 

Bake at 350 degrees F for 3/4 hour. Then, broil for 2-3 minutes to brown 
top. 



Manicotti 



14 



Torta Di Spinaci 



10 oz. spinach, blanched 1 minute, drained, dried and chopped 

2 cups all purpose flour, extra for kneading dough 
1/2 cup unsalted butter(4 oz.) 

1 egg yoke plus 3 whole eggs, beaten 

3 tbs milk 

1/4 cup golden raisins, soak 30 minutes in water, drain 

3/4 cup heavy cream 

1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese 

salt and ground pepper 

2 1/2 tbs (1 oz.) Pine nuts 

To make dough by hand: Pour flour into a bowl, add salt and the butter. 
Using fingertips, work the butter into flour until a crumbly dough forms. 
Add the egg yoke and milk, incorporate, and knead dough into a ball. Wrap in 
plastic wrap and refrigerate for 1 hour. 

Food processor dough: Combine flour and salt in the work bowl and using 
metal blades process briefly to mix. Add butter and process until the 
ingredients resemble course meal. Next add egg yoke and milk and process 
until dough forms a ball around the blades. Remove dough, shape to ball, 
wrap in plastic wrap and refrigerate for 1 hour. 

Pre-heat oven to 350 degrees. Using 1 tbs. butter, grease a 9 inch tart pan 
with a removable bottom and then dust with flour. Using a lightly floured 
board, roll out the dough into a round shape, making it 1 inch larger than 
the diameter of the pan. Line the prepared pan with the pastry dough and 
trim. 

In a bowl, combine the blanched, chopped spinach, raisins, whole eggs, cream 
and Parmesan cheese. Mix well and season with salt and pepper to taste. Pour 
into the pastry-lined tart pan and top with the pine nuts. Bake in oven 
until it is golden, about 40 minutes. Remove, let cool slightly and then 
transfer to a serving dish. Serve Torta luke warm or cool. 



Torta Di Spinaci 



15 



Meatballs (Polpette Alia Casalinga) 



2 slices Italian bread, torn into small pieces 
1/2 Cup milk 

2 Tblsp. finely chopped fresh Italian parsley 

2 cloves finely chopped garlic 

1 teaspoon salt 

1 egg lightly beaten 

1 pound beef chuck, ground twice 

6 Tblsp. freshly grated Romano cheese 

1 Tblsp. olive oil 

1/4 teaspoon garlic salt 

Freshly ground black pepper 

1 Tblsp. oregano 

Soak the pieces of bread in 1/2 cup milk for 5 minutes, then squeeze them 
dry an discard the milk. In a large mixing bowl, combine the soaked bread, 
then beaten egg, beef and sausage with the remaining ingredients. Knead the 
mixture vigorously with both hands or beat with a wooden spoon until all 
ingredients are well blended and the mixture is smooth and fluffy. Shape the 
mixture into small balls about 1/1/2 inches in diameter. Lay the meatballs 
out in one layer on a flat tray or baking sheet, cover them with plastic 
wrap and chill for at least 1 hour. 

Heat 1 /4 cup of olive or vegetable oil in a heated, heavy 1 0-1 2 inch 
skillet until a light haze forms over it. Fry the meatballs 5 or 6 at a time 
over a moderately high heat, shaking the pan constantly to roll the balls 
and keep them round. In 8 - 10 minutes, the meatballs should be brown 
outside and show no trace of pink inside. Add more oil to the skillet as 
needed. Serve the meatballs hot with tomato sauce. 



Meatballs (Polpette Alia Casalinga) 



16 



Insalata Caprese 



4 large fresh tomatoes, sliced 1/4 inch thick 

16 ounces fresh mozzarella cheese, sliced 1/4 inch thick 

1/3 cup packed whole leaf fresh basil 

4 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil 

fine sea salt to taste 

freshly ground black pepper to taste 

1/4 cup imported olives 

On a large platter, arrange tomato and mozzarella slices and basil leaves, 
alternating and overlapping each. Drizzle salad with olive oil; Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper. Garnish with imported olives. 



Insalata Caprese 



17 



Pasta Alia Caruso 



2 Tbs. Olive Oil 

1 Cup Flour, seasoned with a pinch of salt & freshly ground black pepper 

1 Lb. Chicken Livers, separated into individual lobes, 

all visible fat removed 

2 Tbs. Unsalted Butter 

1 Lb. assorted mushrooms, Shiitake (stems removed), Portobello, Crimini, 

White button, sliced thinly 
1 Cup dry red wine 

1 28 Oz. Can, peeled Tomatoes 

2 Tbs. Flat-leafed Italian Parsley, finely chopped 
Salt & freshly ground black pepper 

1 Lb. Spaghetti or Perciatelli 

Heat a saute pan over high heat, then add the olive oil. Flour the chicken 
livers, shaking off any excess and add to the pan. Saute until they are 
slightly browned and firm. Remove livers and set aside. Pour off the olive 
oil, then add the two tablespoons of butter. When the butter has foamed and 
the foam begins to subside, add the mushrooms, tossing to coat with the 
butter. Cook for four or five minutes, until the mushrooms begin to give off 
some of their juices. Add the wine all at once, scraping the bottom of the 
pan to loosen any caramelized bits of liver and mushroom from the bottom. 
Continue, cooking over high heat until the wine has reduced by about half. 
Lower the heat, puree the tomatoes through a food mill, or in a food 
processor, then add to the mushrooms and wine. Adjust the heat so the 
mixture barely simmers. Slice the chicken livers crosswise into half-inch 
rounds and add them, with any of their accumulated juices, to the tomato 
sauce. Taste for seasoning, add salt and pepper if necessary, then cook over 
low heat for about thirty minutes, or until the extraneous juices have 
evaporated. In the meantime, bring a large pot with about six quarts of 
water to a boil. Add the pasta and cook until al dente. Drain the pasta, 
divide into four plates, top with the sauce, garnish with the chopped 
parsley. 



Pasta Alia Caruso 



18 



Pasta Dough 



8 eggs 
2 tsp. salt 

4 cups all purpose flour 

In a large bowl, combine eggs & salt. Beat well. Add flour, 1 cup at a time 
until dough sticks together but is still soft. 

Spread flour on a board, knead dough for 15-20 minutes. Cover and let stand 
in a warm place for about 1 hour. 

Knead for another 5 minutes. Flatten small amounts of dough to form a 2" x 
2" square. Coat square in flour and repeatedly run through pasta machine 
until desired thickness is obtained, or use rolling pin. 

Cut paste shape using pasta machine or slice desired shape by hand. 

Lay out cut pasta on table covered with a table cloth until dry. Pack in 
plastic bags and store in a cool place. 

Cook pasta in boiling salted water until tender. Homemade pasta usually 
takes less time to cook. Top with your favorite sauce. 



Pasta Dough 



19 



Tiramisu 



4 tablespoons espresso coffee 
1 tablespoon Grappa 
3 eggs, separated 
1/2 cup sugar 

8 ounces Marscapone cheese 

24 Savoiardi biscuits 

1 ounce sweet chocolate, grated 

In a small bowl, combine the coffee and grappa; set aside 

In a medium bowl, beat the egg whites until stiff; set aside. 

In a large bowl, beat the egg yolks together with the sugar until thick and 
lemon-colored. Add the marscapone and blend. Gently fold the egg whites into 
the cheese mixture. 

Place half of the biscuits in the bottom of a 10-inch square baking dish or 
larger serving plate. Sprinkle with half of the coffee mixture. Cover with 
half of the cheese mixture, and repeat process. Refrigerate tiramisu for 4 
hours before serving with grated chocolate. 



Tiramisu 



20 



Pasta E Fagioli 



1/4 cup extra virgin olive oil 
6 cloves garlic, minced 

1 can (6 ounces) tomato paste 

2 cans (15 ounces each) cannellini beans, undrained 
2 teaspoons dry basil leaves 

3-4 cups boiling water, divided usage 
2 cups beef broth 
1/3 cup dry red wine 

12 ounces ditalini, elbow macaroni, or any short tubular pasta 
Salt and pepper to taste 
Parmesan cheese, freshly grated 
Chopped fresh basil leaves, optional 

1 . Place olive oil and garlic in a large saucepot (6 quart). Cook over 
medium heat just until golden. Add tomato paste and cook 3-4 minutes 
stirring occasionally. 

2. Puree 1 can of beans in food processor or blender; add to saucepot with 
remaining beans. Cook 2 minutes; stir in basil. Add 2 cups boiling water, 
broth, wine, salt and pepper. Increase heat and bring to a boil, stirring 
occasionally, about 5 minutes. Add pasta. Cook about 8 minutes or until al 
dente, adding remaining hot water, if needed and stirring occasionally. 

3. Serve hot topped with Parmesan and fresh basil, if desired. 



Pasta E Fagioli 



21 



Cavatelli Sausage With Broccoli 



1/2 lb. or 2 cups dried Cavatelli or other small 

shell-shaped Italian pasta 
1/2 lb. or 3 links sweet Italian Sausage 
2 cloves garlic, minced 
1 bunch broccoli 
1 1/4 cup low-salt chicken broth 
1/4 cup raisins 
1 tbls. unsalted butter 
Parmesan cheese 

Squeeze sausage from casings and saute in a heavy skillet or cast iron 
frying pan. Stir until no longer pink and sausage has broken down into small 
chunks. Remove sausage with slotted spoon leaving juices in pan. 

Cut broccoli into 1 inch pieces and saute in juices or drippings from the 
sausage. Stir gently til it begins to brown. Add garlic and saute 1 minute 
more. Add broth and raisins and simmer until the broccoli is tender, about 3 
minutes. Do not over cook. Finally, add butter and stir to melt. Add, with 
sausage, to cooked pasta and serve with parmesan cheese. 



Cavatelli Sausage With Broccoli 



22 



Angel Hair With Balsamic Tomatoes 



1 teaspoon minced garlic 
1 teaspoon olive oil 

5 to 6 Roma tomatoes, chopped, (28-ounce. can plum tomatoes) 

3 tablespoons balsamic vinegar 

salt & pepper to taste 

1/4 Cup chopped fresh basil 

1/2 Pound angel hair pasta, (uncooked) 

Saute the garlic in olive oil until lightly browned. Do this in a skillet 
large enough to hold the tomatoes later. Leave garlic in skillet. 

Place tomatoes, salt & pepper, basil and balsamic vinegar in a non-reactive 
bowl and set aside for 10 minutes, stirring occassionally. 

Boil water for pasta. 

Just before you put the pasta in the water, drain tomatoes and reserve the 
juice that runs off. (I usually set my colander on a dinner plate). Put the 
angel hair pasta in the water to cook for the recommended amount of time. 

Heat your garlic skillet and toss drained tomatoes briefly JUST to heat. 
They should retain their shape. The pasta should finish cooking (usually no 
more than 5 minutes for angel hair) at the same time the tomatoes are ready. 

Toss the pasta and tomato mixture together and serve with freshly grated 
parmesan cheese. 



Angel Hair With Balsamic Tomatoes 



23 



Spumone Di Zabaglione 



6 eggs 

1/2 cup sugar 
1/2 tsp. nutmeg 
1/2 cup marsala 
3 tbsp. dark rum 
1-1/2 cup heavy cream 

Separate the eggs and place the yolks in the top part of a double boiler. 
Place the whites in a stainless steel bowl at room temperature. Add sugar 
and nutmeg to eggs and beat, off the heat, until it forms ribbons. Add 
marsala and rum and place over double boiler. Beat until frothy and foamy 
and quite firm, about 2 to 3 minutes. Remove to ice bath and cool while 
whisking. Beat the cream to soft peaks and fold egg mixture into whites. 
Place into ice cream machine and chill according to manufacturer's 
instructions. Place in freezer, well covered. When ready to serve, scoop 
into balls and garnish with crushed amaretti cookies. 



Spumone Di Zabaglione 



24 



Carbonara Sauce 



4 Tablespoon Butter 

8 Slice Bacon; cut in 1/4" strips 

2 Eggs 

2 Egg yolks 

1 Teaspoon Red pepper flakes 

1 Cup Parmesan cheese 

1/2 Cup Heavy cream 

1 Teaspoon Salt 

Black pepper 

1 Pound Spaghetti 

8 Quarts water 

Cream soft butter. In another bowl, beat eggs & yolks and whisk until 
blended, add 1/2 cup cheese. Heat large casserole dish in 200F oven. Bring 
water & salt to boil in large pot. Meanwhile, fry bacon in skillet over 
med heat until crisp. Pour off half of fat and stir in red pepper flakes and 
cream. Bring cream mixture to simmer and keep warm until spaghetti is done. 
Transfer cooked spaghetti to heated serving bowl and stir in creamed butter. 
Coat well. Stir in hot bacon & cream mixture and finally the beaten eggs 
and cheese. The heat of the pasta will cook the raw eggs. Taste and season 
with salt and pepper. Serve with remaining grated cheese. 



Carbonara Sauce 



25 



Italian Tomato Sauce 



2-28 ounce cans diced or ground tomatoes or whole 
tomatoes NOT packed in puree or sauce 

3 tablespoons high-quality olive oil 

1 large, thick pork chop or 1-1/2 pounds beef chuck, 

steak preferred 
1 medium onion, peeled and finely chopped 
1 medium carrot, peeled and finely chopped 

4 garlic cloves, peeled and crushed 
1/2 cup red wine 

1-1/2 teaspoons salt 

3 tablespoons fresh basil or Italian parsley, chopped 
Freshly ground black pepper to taste 

If using whole tomatoes, drain them, reserving the liquid and chop. Reserve 
tomatoes and juice in a bowl. 

In a nonreactive Dutch oven, heat the olive oil. Season the chop with salt 
and pepper and brown over medium-high heat on both sides, about 8 minutes 
total. Remove meat and set aside. Reduce heat to medium-low, add the onion 
and carrot and saute until softened, 8 to 10 minutes. Add the garlic and saute 
for 1 minute. Return the meat and any accumulated juices to the pot and add 
the wine. Bring to a simmer, and cook uncovered for 3 minutes. 

Add the reserved tomatoes (if using crushed or minced tomatoes, just add 
them directly from the can) and the salt and bring back to a simmer. Reduce 
heat to low to maintain a slow simmer, partially cover, and cook until the 
meat is tender, about 45 to 55 minutes, depending on the thickness of the 
meat. Remove meat and keep warm. Raise heat to medium and continue cooking 
sauce for about 5 minutes, or until sauce has thickened. 

Stir in the basil and/or parsley and add freshly ground black pepper to 
taste (the sauce will be salty at this point; it will taste fine once added 
to pasta). Slice the meat and serve with pasta and sauce. 



Italian Tomato Sauce 



26 



Stuffed Roasted Peppers 



4 - 7 oz. cans roasted peppers 

1 cup seasoned breadcrumbs 

8 oz. shredded fontina cheese 

3 cloves minced garlic 

1/4 cup imported grated romano cheese 

A few sprigs of fresh 

parsley, chopped fine 

Salt and pepper 

Flour and beaten eggs (enough to dredge peppers in) 
Olive oil to fry peppers in 

Drain peppers and rinse with water. Open peppers, splitting in one side, so 
that they lay flat on counter. Sprinkle with small amount of breadcrumbs, 
reserving most to coat peppers with. Add minced garlic, shredded fontina 
cheese, parsley, and grated romano cheese. Roll up peppers, keeping as much 
filling inside as possible, then dredge in flour, egg, then seasoned bread 
crumbs and set aside. Heat olive oil on medium-high heat in trypan. When 
hot, fry peppers until golden, turning once to brown evenly. Sprinkle with 
salt and pepper and serve. 



Stuffed Roasted Peppers 



27 



